Q:

What sort of dust collection system would be adequate for a two-car garage?

I have only recently moved into a new house with an attached two-car garage. I am also starting to make a fair bit of dust working on projects in the garage.
Tools I am using include handsaws, a circular saw, drills, a 13" planer and a radial arm saw.
My current method is to work on a project then use a wet/dry utility vacuum to clean everything up afterwards.
What I would like to mitigate:

A standing layer of dust on everything in the garage.
A clogged up utility vacuum
An unhealthy workspace

I have seen a couple recommendations online, such as a cyclone dust collector which I believe goes after the tool, before the vacuum. Also I have seen DIY air cleaners using box fans and furnace filters.
I do not wish to spend a ton of money, but at the same time I do want a good system for a hobbyist/prosumer that will prevent the above concerns.

A:

There's two things to consider here: how much the machine throws dust all over the place, and how good dust collection is at the source. The circular saw and RAS are both going to throw dust with a fairly high velocity, and neither have good dust collection mechanisms. You could build one for the circ saw (as Jay Bates did for his circ saw) or a dust shroud for the RAS. For the planer, dust collection tends to be pretty good (at least in my experience when using a dust-collector). So as long as you're sucking chips at the source, you should be good to go. But even if it was so-so, the chips are big enough that they are easy to track down. 
So, I'd recommend a couple things:

Get a chip separator for your shop vac. You can easily make one yourself or purchase a dust deputy. This will keep your filter from getting clogged and improve performance. 
Attach a furnace filter to a fan (see this image from photobucket), which it sounds like you're doing. 
Use a leaf blower to clear out the thick layer of dust. I actually do this daily to keep my garage clean. (At least it will work well during the summer).
You might want to invest in a dust collector. There are some fairly inexpensive options out there. I've bought the Harbor Freight model and am quite happy with it (as are others).  

Good luck!

A:

I'm not sure it's possible to catch all the dust you make on any project, however the is no reason not to try.
For quite a while I used a shop-vac to clean things up and many tools have connections to help in this endeavor, though you need to keep moving the shop-vac around to all your tools.  On top of that they tend to be very loud, (much louder even than my big dust collector).
Once I started using my planer, the shop-vac was not nearly up to par.  I'd fill it up after just a couple boards and it was a mess cleaning it out all the time.  They have cyclone lids that you can buy for normal trash cans which will separate most of the chip volume out before it gets to the shopvac.  saving you a lot of time.  My planer causes by far the most mess, so getting that under wraps will go a long way in reducing your dust.
Another piece that I'm still hoping to add to my shop is a ceiling mounted dust collector/air purifier to clean out all the suspended particles floating around, they are what leave that fine coat of dust on everything when you come back in the next day.

