Q:

How to remove and repair a crooked desk leg?

Apologies if I break any rules with this post, please let me know if I do.
I am an utter novice when it comes to woodworking but I want to get into it as soon as I have the time/money and I decided a good place to get my hands dirty is trying to fix some of the second-hand furniture I'm gonna be getting for my new apartment.
I bought this lovely desk which is mostly in pretty good shape except that the back legs are kinda loose and crooked. When it's standing, I can use it well enough without any wobbling but I'd love to fix them anyway.

It looks like they were removed and glued back in at some point as it seems like there used to be a bar going from leg to leg.
I could remove one of the legs with a little force and unscrewing movement but the other one seems to be glued tightly.

So, my questions are:
How can I unglue that leg without damaging the desk?
How can I put them back in so that they stand perfectly straight like the other two?
Bear in mind I have no tools or experience, but willing to do whatever is in my means!
Based on the comments the mortise has a loose bit as seen in the picture, so you are definitely right that I should address that as well.

A:

Given your lack of tooling I think the only reasonable way to address this is to flood the affected joints with epoxy.  (Funny how many of my answers seem to be this solution lately.)
First, get some high-quality 2-part epoxy.  Personally I like the West and Entropy brands, but I'm sure there are others that are just fine.  You'll also need a "filler" to thicken them since this will be a gap-filling application.  Aim for a "ketchup" consistency when adding the filler.  Also get some disposable plastic syringes.
For the leg that you can detach clean the mating surfaces of the mortise (the hole) and tenon (the part that goes in the hole) with coarse sandpaper so that they are free of any existing glue.  See if you can find a clamp or some other way to force the gap in the case closed.  Use the syringe to get some epoxy in the gap in the case, then apply epoxy to the tenon, making sure that there is enough epoxy to fully fill the "looseness" between the mortise and tenon.  Clamp the case to close up the gap in the apron (though if the clamping takes too much force don't worry about it).  Use masking tape going from the end of the leg to the case to hold the leg straight while the epoxy cures.
For the leg that you can't remove I would drill holes going upwards diagonally around the leg so that they intersect with the tenon.  Use the syringe to force epoxy into these holes until it starts seeping out of the leg joint.  Again use tape to hold the leg straight while the epoxy cures.

