Q:

Solid wood top to solid wood sides

I'm looking to build an entertainment center that is 48” wide by 24” deep by 32” tall. I understand that I need to plan for wood movement for the top as it is solid wood (1 11/32” black walnut, grain is perpendicular parallel to the face). The sides are also solid wood (13/16” QS makore). Both the top and sides have the grain running one direction, simple top and sides. From looking at the specs for each wood they are practically identical from a wood movement perspective.
So the question is: do I need to worry about wood movement if I attached the top to the sides with the grain on the sides and top running the same direction?  
If not, I glue the entire 24” length where the top meets the side.
If so, I attach and fix in the middle, then use zclips or whatever to attach out to the ends at 0” and 24”.
Update 2/6/2019:
Thanks all for the responses and being gentle with my feeble attempts to explain my situation.  Sorry for the confusion.  The Black walnut looks to be rift sawn for all intensive purposes.  The Makore was labelled as quarter sawn when i got it.  The makore's grain is more diagonal-ish... Hopefully this photo will clear up the confusion.  Will update again with actual photos of the wood tomorrow:

Update 2/7/2019:
Good question on how how to secure it.  Here are some pics on what I was thinking on the top:

As for the second photo, the pieces on the top at an angle will be the bracing members for the bottom of the entertainment center(when it is right side up).  A shelf will connect to it (not pictured).  Using the Festool Domino to attach the sides to the top.  Then using a combination of the top bracing and z clips to keep the top secured to the unit.  I think I'll avoid gluing all together.

A:

If the top and sides have the grain running in the same direction, then there's no need to worry about movement.
I am a little worried when you say that the grain on the top is going to run "perpendicular to the face".  Do you mean the top is going to be end-grain (so the grain runs vertically), or do you mean that the grain runs from the front of the unit to the back?  Either way, the top will be very weak (if you treat wood like a bundle of knitting needles weakly glued together, you won't go far wrong in analyzing how strong it is).  The only safe way is for the grain to run side to side.
Edit I am no longer worried about the grain direction.

