Q:

Side table design: will wood movement and expansion be an issue?

I'm a beginning woodworker, and I've made a design for a side table. It's a small table, measuring 400x350mm (~ 16x14 inches). I'd like to make it in two types of wood, for the legs and the top. I was thinking about orienting the grain such that it runs vertically for the legs, and horizontally for the connecting leg pieces.
I was planning on just gluing the leg frame to the top, optionally with some structural reinforcement such a dominos or dowels. But I'm worried a bit that wood movement and expansion will be an issue, especially if I'm using two species of wood.
Will will movement be an issue with this design? And if so, what would be the best way to deal with it? Would orienting or matching the grain direction a certain way be enough?

A:

Assuming you are gluing everything together, different types of wood should work just fine provided that top is solid wood and the wood grain on the top and the horizontals are in the same direction (that way each piece of wood expands and contracts at the same rate).
However, there are a number of considerations you should incorporate into your final design:

Your leg structure looks more like a metal design than wood.  The curved corners might be achievable using a laminate/plywood material, but will not be easy to construct from solid materials (nor, possibly, as strong). Keep in mind that the leg assembly on each side must resist racking from front to back as well as side to side and you are putting complex joint assemblies at the place where the ability of the assembly to resist shifting from square is most pronounced. Such joints are certainly possible, but are more complex that a simple butt joint.
The legs are not cross braced in any way except at the top and this connection lacks an apron to provide support against racking. All the lateral force is transferred through the fastening between the top and horizontal leg members and it may not be enough if an unplanned force is applied the table.  If you screw the top to the horizontals, there will be strong tendency for the screw to pull out of the top.  Gluing the legs and top together will handle the stress much better.
If you drag the table along a floor, the legs assemblies on each side will be pulled independently and are more likely to skew a bit and at different angles.  If you look at typical wood table design there is often a lower open shelf.  This provides additional bracing to keep the legs at the same width and square at the bottom.

