Q:

Box joints for this table with just jigsaw and chisel?

I'm planning on replicating this side table.
 
It looks nice, but of course from a stability point of view that is probably one of the worst table designs to come up with ;). A lot of force is on those box joints, of course this is just a couch table for some glasses and a bowl of chips, but still.
I'm pretty new to woodworking, and only have an electric jigsaw at the moment, a manual saw and will get some chisels. 
If I work carefully will it be possible to make the joints fit well enough to make the table as stable as it needs to be? Or would I really need precision machines like a table saw with box joint jig?
I'm aware this will be quite a bit of work... Any tricks to make this easier?
Also, does the wood used matter much? The example table is made from    acacia, but I would prefer birch. Is there a difference in hardness, for example?

A:

Some general design/structural considerations for this type of project:
While the design shown should be adequate for light loads, it may be helpful to others to understand the way the table works in transferring the loads to the base for future projects. The performance of the table joints under load will not depend upon the species of wood so much as the design and execution of the finger joints.  Whether the joints hold up to any loads will depend upon the number and size of the joints, the number and contact surface area, the quality of the joint contact faces, and the extension length of the table surfaces away from the connection points.  
The further the weight is from the joint the more leverage is applied with increased strain transferred through the joints. Any weights applied to the table top must be transferred to the floor through the joints. Therefore the shorter the distance from the joint possible for a weight to be placed, the less force applied to the joint.  The dimensions you choose for a project are made for function, but the design must consider the size of the top and the possible distance from the joints. 
The joints themselves primarily need to resist rotational forces which are transferred through the side faces of the fingers via the glue connection. There are two possible means for failure at these connections.  The glue can fail in its bond to the wood or the wood face fibers can tear out from the stock. To maximize performance the joints should be uniform and snug to insure the glue does its job well.  Too much glue used to fill voids in the wood contact will fail before a fine even coat of glue. The wood at the fingers will be under shear stress due to the rotation force in the joint.  This means that the fibers of wood will want to tear loose from adjacent fibers deeper from the surface. Woodbin.com provides information on wood shear strength (also check out the "wood" tag wiki for other resources).  Clearly denser hardwoods have more shear strength than softwoods such as pine and will have increased capability to resist rotational shear stress.
Thicker boards are better. Each finger joint will provide a small portion of the overall strength of the joint.  Clearly the area of contact in each joint will matter.  The thicker each board is the more strength it will have.  Doubling the thickness will quadruple the strength of the joint due to increased contact area.
More fingers are better, up to a point. How many you need, structurally, depends upon the weights it must support.  Determining the exact number necessary is a structural engineering calculation beyond the scope of the answer. That number will certainly be less than what is pictured for this design. After that count the rest is mostly aesthetics.  Obviously the more joints you include the thinner the thickness of the individual fingers.  How thin is too thin is a good question.  I can't offer a supportable answer for that at this time.  My instincts tell me 1/4" is a minimum finger width, but I would not be surprised to hear the fingers could be much thinner and still perform as well or maybe better than my declared minimum.

A:

These (and much more complex) joints have been done by hand tools alone for centuries, and there is still a strong following of hand tools only woodworking. The box joint you show here is pretty simple, with all angles at 90 degrees.
To use the tools you mentioned, the best tip would be to cut everything too small with the jigsaw (or even the hand saw), and then do the final trimming to the exact size with chisels (since it is easier to remove more wood that to add wood where you've cut too much). Also, first do one side of the box joint, and then use it to mark the opposite side (instead of marking both side at the same time and cutting them together). This will help ensure that the two parts fit well together.
A specific advice about chisels is to keep them sharp. You might think they come sharp out of the box, but typical chisels are far from their full sharpness when bought.  Chisels will also dull during work, so sharpening them is an important skill to learn and master. There's a ton of sharpening information online and on this site.

A:

The box joint is sort of the machine equivalent of the dovetail joint; by having all the cuts at 90 degrees you can more easily mechanize the joinery and thanks to the resulting increase in speed you can make many fine 'fingers' to give you massive glue area. This is good since the joint relies entirely on glue to hold it together.
Dovetailing has the advantage of mechanical interlock in addition to glue. Because cutting the tails and pins by hand is slow you generally will have fewer of them, more widely spaced than with a machine made box joint and therefore you have less glue area.
All this is to say that, since you are cutting the joints by hand, you should consider using dovetails instead of box joints. It will change the look of the piece though.
Whether you go with dovetails or box joints you should look up the procedure for cutting dovetails by hand - you will find it in many books and in many places on the internet with small variations. If you are using box joints you will only have to modify the instructions slightly so that all your cuts are at 90 degrees.
Usually the goal when hand cutting these joints is to saw accurately enough that no clean up with a chisel is needed. It's much, much quicker that way and if you can manage it gets a great result.
I haven't tried it but I imagine with a jig saw it will be hard or impossible to make the cuts accurately and cleanly enough that no clean up with a chisel is needed. I would recommend sawing as close to the line as you can manage though.
Alternatively you could buy a dovetail saw and practice with it. Actually I would recommend you do some practice joints whichever method you settle on.

