Q:

When are pocket holes an appropriate joinery technique?

I have come across a lot of designs and plans for things like outdoor furniture, kids' furniture, etc., that call for the use of pocket holes.  I can appreciate why this is enticing to a lot of people as it's a lot simpler that mortise and tenon joints or dovetails while still being concealed.
Matthias Wandel has an article on Testing pocket holes against mortise and tenon and dowel joints where he finds that they are indeed significantly weaker than other joint types.
With the exception of small objects, 99lbs as an average breaking force for a pocket joint doesn't seem very strong at all.  I could see a tabletop generate forces beyond this with just a few adults leaning on it.
Are there any times when this is an appropriate joinery technique to use, over alternatives? Or are they just typically used when someone doesn't have the skill, time (or maybe cost) to build a more robust joint?

A:

Bear in mind that that 99 lbs is for a single joint with pressure being applied in the manner of a first class lever in Mr. Wandel's experiment. You will have multiple pocket holes in a given construction. Let's look at your table example. Most of that pressure is being distributed through the legs and into the floor,  say you have four legs and four boards making up the frame that the tabletop attaches to. it's also being used in conjunction with wood glue (e.g. titebond), so you're not just looking at the strength of the screws but the glue as well.
Even disregarding the fact that you're going to glue your pocket holes, that pressure is distributed over at a minimum of two joints and much of the pressure from someone leaning on the table is going into the legs themselves, not into the class one lever directly applied to the joint like Mr. Wandel used for his experiment.
A pocket hole joint is great for face frames as rob mentioned. A friend of mine used a kreg jig to build his desk and it has not fallen to pieces around him. I probably wouldn't use it for a kitchen table as the sole joint, but I wouldn't be opposed to using them to help clamp mortise and tenon joints.
Frankly, I think Mr. Wandels' experiment is misleading in that it shows that a single joint is stronger, but the impression it gives is that you shouldn't use pocket holes because they're weak, and that simply isn't the case. I am curious to know why his experiment disagrees with Kreg's claims from "independent testing." Kreg claims that a pocket hole joint can sustain more shear load than a mortise and tenon joint. This may be true, since Wandel's test wasn't for a shear load. It might be interesting to see how that experiment was done.
Mostly I think there is opposition to pocket hole joinery because it isn't "classy." Woodworkers like to think of themselves as rustic traditionalists, carrying on a craft passed on for generations. Pocket holes may seem too much like a crutch, or being too "modern," but they're frankly plenty strong for quite a few situations, including light tables and desks. 

A:

Pocket hole joinery is commonly used in cabinet face frames, but it can be useful in many other applications, as well. Jay Bates' website has an entire category of projects he's built using pocket hole joinery, ranging from a jewelry cabinet to a bunk bed to a bar stool.
As with many types of joints, pocket hole joinery is strong enough in many applications. For example, there are even tutorials on how to build a workbench using pocket holes.
Pocket hole joinery is really just a very fancy form of toenailing, which is a construction technique commonly used in building houses and cabinets.
You typically wouldn't subject pocket hole joints to the type of racking force demonstrated in Matthias' experiments. If you do want to use pocket holes in such an application, you can reinforce against the racking forces with additional cross members and diagonal braces.
Also keep in mind that a project using pocket screws does not have to use them exclusively as the only joinery method. You can certainly use pocket screws for some parts of a project and some other joinery method for other parts of the project.

A:

Unless we are talking about some fancy glueless japanese joinery, there is a fundamental difference: both mortise + tenon and dove tails are glued together.
Pocket hole joinery is screwed together, which allows you to take it apart again. If the ability to disassemble the result of your work again at some later point in time, pocket holes are in fact superior to the other two, no matter how weak they are or what jig they require.
If that large dining table doesn't fit through the door, strong joints aren't helpful at all. and if you glue the parts together inside the room, you will never get the table back out in one piece.

