Q:

Making a modern chaise on two cylinder legs stability issues

I'm currently trying to build a modern chaise with only two legs.
I will attach a link to it below.
Steps I have done:
Plywood 3/4" cut them into dimensions of the chaise and created a frame and attached it to 3/4" board.
Once that's done got four 14.5" rounds and attached them with 2x4s for the required height.
Attached parallel 3/4" plywood to both legs and attached it to the frame.
Now the issue happens to be when I sit on one end the legs are tilting a bit which tells me it's pulling the other end. But since I'm new to this I need any help you can provide.
https://www.westelm.com/products/mp-fluted-base-chaise-73-h11541/?catalogId=71&sku=6987794&cm_ven=PLA&cm_cat=Google&cm_pla=Furniture%20%3E%20Benches&region_id=668460&cm_ite=6987794_14465514686&gclid=CjwKCAjwvJyjBhApEiwAWz2nLVnU7yx-1wSQKVfKmNws_-8-yYNVjzr1UBBZBbCJ0Ix9Ub32Mf5jpxoCh3EQAvD_BwE

A:

There's a few things going on that will make this feel less stable.
First, and I'm not 100% sure about this, so possibly ignore, but it looks like in copying the design, you've stretched the main deck wider than 30" and shrunk the diameter of the feet fractionally. This won't be a huge deal, but everything counts.
Second, the deck looks like 1/2" OSB, and the combination of 1x2, 1x3, and 1x4 (we'll call all that the "subframe", for lack of a better term) probably isn't sufficient to make that into a stiff surface. It can help to drive a bunch of 1-1/4" screws from the top side through the subframe. The 1x4 that turns into a 1x3 on the right side of the picture isn't helping as much as it should -- a continuous piece of wood would be much better. To stiffen this surface, add more wood, with screws from the top side of the OSB. To really stiffen this surface, make a torsion box with another layer of OSB on the bottom.
Third, and the biggest issue, is that you've stacked flimsy 1x2 rails on top of different subframe members. It's not clear how these are attached (except for a couple of visible t-nuts), but you need to pack the empty space between the legs and the top with solid wood. That means a 1x6 (or bigger, if it'll fit) between the main subframe and the two 1x2 rails, and 3 strips (as wide as possible) between the subframe and the feet. The end goal is that the tops of the feet have wood between them and the OSB top. Now attach from the top side of the OSB through the padding, into the tops of the feet with plenty of 3" screws. Predrill clearance holes in the OSB and the 2 layers of packing, and pilot holes in the foot.
Parenthetically, it's not clear to me why you opted to add those 1x2 rails that run sideways. If they're needed for stiffness along the 6' axis, put them out at the edges. (Better yet, put them on edge around 4 sides like a table apron, as opposed to on the flat.) As they're placed, they're not really helping and will cause upholstery trouble later on.

A:

The design and construction is inherently unstable.
You would do better to remove the 1x material and build the platform with two or three layers of plywood laminated together using glue and screws. That should remove any flex in the surface as weight is applied to the chair.
Attach the pedestals directly to the platform surface with four or more fasteners each. The flat surfaces of the platform and the tops of the pedestals fastened together should prevent (or greatly mitigate) the platform shifting on the pedestals.
You might encircle the platform with solid wood (maybe 1x3 or even 2x3) to hide the edges and for some added rigidity for the platform.
After taking the steps above to improve the stability of the construction, there remains a possibility that the entire structure, as designed, would be prone to tipping if someone sat on the extreme edges or the corners.  This concern extends to the original design as well. The chair may need larger diameter pedestals to be entirely stable.
Furniture needs to be designed and built to account for the "odd" things people subject it to. For example, will this support three or four people along the edge? What if the people are engaged in activity more dynamic than just sleeping or sitting on it? What if someone sits on the end or corner? What if two people sit on an end?

