Q:

Large 1/4 inch 45 degree chamfer router bit for cutting mitres

I am wanting to perform some mitre 45 degree cuts with my router table as my cheapo mitre saw doesn't have a straight fence (sad noises); so I've been looking for a chamfer bit that is large enough to perform mitre cuts on my thicker than normal pine stock - I believe it is 22mm thick.
From the youtube videos I've watched it seems that the 45 degree heavy duty chamfer bit 36-950 from Infinity Tools is the go to bit for this sort of job, however it also appears that this only comes in 1/2 inch shank :-(
I'm just wondering if there is a bit out there that I have not seen that can do something similar, or can I accomplish the mitre cut with a smaller, standard sized chamfer bit that I already own (with bearing)?

A:

From the youtube videos I've watched it seems that the 45 degree heavy duty chamfer bit 36-950 from Infinity Tools is the go to bit for this sort of job, however it also appears that this only comes in 1/2 inch shank :-(

When the cutter approaches or exceeds the cost of a new router (and perhaps it's worth mentioning that routers litter the secondhand-tool market) some would argue that the maths becomes very simple.... assuming space isn't so tight that you couldn't squeeze another router into the workshop.
However....
Approach the problem from a different direction
Straight bit, angled workpiece. Standard way in some workshops to machine mitres, and not just with a router.
Making a jig for any given mitre is straightforward (or take a bit more time and make a fancy one, adjustable for all conceivable angles) and then you only have to buy straight bits to cover almost all the work you'd do on board ends, from basic shooting to tenon forming and mitre cutting.

A:

it also appears that this only comes in 1/2 inch shank

A 45° cutter that's large enough to cut the full 22mm thickness of your work will have to be at least 44mm in diameter, plus the diameter of the shaft, for a total of 51mm or more. You wouldn't want a sharpened chunk of metal that large spinning at 10,000rpm or more on a 1/4" shank.

I'm just wondering if there is a bit out there that I have not seen that can do something similar

Most router bits meant for making miter joints are actually lock miter bits, which doesn't sound like what you want. And I've never seen one with a shank smaller than 1/2".

can I accomplish the mitre cut with a smaller, standard sized chamfer bit that I already own (with bearing)?

No. It'd be very difficult to cut an accurate miter joint in multiple passes with a small 45° bit.

I am wanting to perform some mitre 45 degree cuts with my router table as my cheapo mitre saw doesn't have a straight fence

Can you do anything to fix that? Maybe make replacement fences from plywood? That'd be far preferable to trying to use a router that's not up to the task.

