Q:

Box to cover consumer unit flush with wall - Backless with cutouts possible?

I have a consumer unit that is perfectly flush in the corner of my hallway, and I am wanting to build some kind of full height storage cupboard around it from 18mm melamine chipboard.
I was initially thinking about building a backless unit for a bit extra space given the space it will fit in is not the deepest, but with the consumer unit where it is, I will have to make a cutout to which I would be concerned that a backless unit would be not structurally sound.

I plan on having some shelves via shelf pins so they won't add any rigidity.
Assuming that the current idea isn't structurally sound, what would be the best route to ensure it is?

I could consider using a 6mm ply/mdf backing with its own cutout
I could to 2 stretchers from the same 18mm board, one above and one below.

Looking for some advice :-)

Full space dimensions (click to enlarge)

A:

Referring to the discussion in the Comments, assuming it is legal, and therefore safe, for you to continue.....

Backless with cutouts possible?

Well a coutout, yes, absolutely.
Because of the proposed installation location, one side of the cabinet (the one that will have the cutout) is hard up against the return wall. So your side can be screwed directly to that wall, using as many fasteners as you personally feel are needed1. Once this side becomes a fixed element, most of the normal reason for having a back immediately goes away, even with the amount of space the back takes up being very modest2 a back is just not needed here.
You do need to think about how you will hang the other side of cabinet since this isn't a conventional installation. While I suppose theoretically you could use keyhole hangers I'm not sure about how fiddly this would be in practice given the other cabinet side. So I propose you use L-shaped steel brackets which are utilitarian, but strong and cheap.
They do take up some space though, figure you'll lose max 3mm from the back and side where each is located. But since they don't need to be placed anywhere in particular, and in keeping with the theme of maximising internal storage, site them where they're most unlikely to interfere with items placed on any shelf — up high, just under the cabinet top and right below one shelf.

1 Given destructive testing data (from manufacturers and from comparative testing done on YouTube channels such as Gosforth Hanyman), I would be happy to use only two, but feel free to triple that number if you need to in order to feel confident. One rarely has cause to regret going stronger on a build!
2 Since you would be using 6mm MDF if you did fit a back you'd lose at most 10mm of internal space front to back, which doesn't seem excessive. Although perhaps you're very tight for space with the proposed contents, where every millimetre counts (I think we've all been there).

