Q:

Filling screw holes in cutting board

I took the legs off a cutting board because I want to use both sides of it. That has left four screw holes about 5mm (0.2") in diameter.
Would it be OK to fill these holes with Titebond III glue or should I plug them with some wood and Titebond glue?
From my research of  previous questions it seems that epoxy, or saw dustand adhesive filling are also solutions for a small hole.
Would filling using just Titebond be adequate or would it cause problems?
The cutting board is made of end-grain walnut, and is new but looks really dry so I'm thinking if I use Titebond I'll do that before replenishing with oil.
I have no experience with woodworking though if it's a simple enough job I can give it a go.

A:

Since this is an end-grain board filling the holes by glueing in dowels seems the ideal fix.
But you could fill with a mix of sawdust (sanding dust) and glue and get a somewhat similar look. The reason that sawdust + glue mixtures are frequently not recommended is because they end up so dark compared to the surrounding wood. And that's because such filler material is similar to end grain. But here that's not a problem, it's actually an advantage.
However I think the best approach in this case is to glue in a dowel. If you don't have any suitable walnut dowel but have others you could use another species to make these a deliberate feature (i.e use a contrasting species of a lighter colour). If you would prefer to have the filled holes be as unobtrusive as possible and you have some scrap walnut you can easily and quickly make a basic dowel plate to form your own dowels. A dowel plate at simplest is just a piece of steel with one or more holes drilled in it. Doesn't need to be tool steel, it can be mild steel (and surprisingly thin) if it doesn't have to last.
A quick overview of one approach to using a dowel plate can be seen here on Fine Woodworking.
Paul Sellers has even demonstrated how it's possible to make quick-and-dirty dowels by pounding through the hole in a washer, see that and more here.

