Q:

How to safely cut old lumber with old nails in it?

A friend gave me a bunch of really old lumber (the late 1800s, early 1900s) and they have a bunch of old handmade nails in them which I tried pulling out but half of them broke off in the wood. I would love to use this lumber but I don't want to ruin my blades in the jointer/planer or trigger the SawStop so is there a way I can safely mill these boards or should I scrap them?

A:

Before you start, rather than just winging it as many do when faced with the prospect of using reclaimed wood (I'm very much including pallet wood here for some of the direct parallels) it might be worth consciously looking at it this way:
potential value of wood to you / (the cost of your time + cost of 1-2 useful tools)
Everyone will do this calculation differently. If you're an amateur you might value your time at zero as many/most amateurs do, in which case it becomes only a matter of how much effort you're willing put into the boring preparatory stages, along with the cost of any of a few tools you might need to make this wood safe to process in your normal manner (but see bottom for an alternative).

New Yankee Workshop used reclaimed wood numerous times so that might be something to go hunting for to see someone working start to finish with wood that might be quite similar to what you have there. Sorry I can't give you even a starting point for the search like project titles, or even which seasons to look in, because in writing this I realise it's been 20 years since I watched NYW!
As Norm shows quite well (better in later episodes IIRC) you start by meticulously de-nailing the boards before any further processing.
Find the metal, remove it
Using a metal detector is considered a must here, so that's an expense to factor in. Be methodical. Do both sides. Mark each location with pen, chalk, or carpenter's pencil.
Do not be guided purely by the staining you might see, or obvious holes; although of course they are a useful starting point chunks of iron can be surprisingly well hidden on old, especially weathered, wood. I've missed a few on boards that were merely rough-sawn and a bit dingy!
You might read you can use a stud finder for the metal hunt but, eh, not really. Ditto a strong magnet. Both are capable of finding some of the metal in wood for sure, on thinner boards especially for obvious reasons. But they both lack the sensitivity you want for thicker material and to reliably find smaller chunks, like just the tip of a nail that gets left behind after pulling.

I tried pulling out but half of them broke off in the wood

It may be possible to successfully pull/prise out the pieces that remain e.g. by drilling to either side and then using needle-nosed pliers. This can take far longer than you expect, and it means leaving a much bigger gouge in the wood than you were hoping for. But remember you can always use tinted epoxy or a Dutchman for defects like this, and either can add an attractive touch to something obviously made from old wood.
Assuming you aren't willing to just rip cut out entire nail lines, and/or trim off the ends where the nails mostly lie, the only alternative to prying out is some type of coring tool or plug cutter which will leave a more uniform hole that you might or might not prefer (note that the larger the holes are the harder it is to plug with face-grain wood, so you might prefer to convert the round holes to any of the more traditional Dutchman shapes).
After you've worked your way along a board from one end to the other, ticking off every marked location, check the wood again with the metal detector. Dollars to doughnuts you'll find at least one piece that got overlooked or left behind.
It should be impossible to miss any piece of metal worth noting if you check a second time but.....
What if I do miss a piece?
Assuming you don't go a different route on initial breakdown the first major power tool to see the wood will be your table saw. Since you're using a modern saw I think it's safe to assume your blade is carbide-tipped :-) and as I mention in the Comment above, carbide-toothed TS blades are capable of cutting though staples, brads and even the occasional nail without harm1. And just to be clear, by without harm I don't mean no apparent damage I mean no damage at all that anyone can notice; you'll confirm this for yourself during your due diligence.
This shouldn't be that surprising since mild steel and wrought iron are relatively soft, and carbide is hard2.
Now the flesh-sensing technology on the SawStop adds a further complication because sawing though a bit of metal can on occasion trigger it, which means new brake and new blade, obviously something you want to completely avoid. You can turn the saw into a dumb saw, as an owner you'll know Bypass Mode is specifically provided for this purpose as and when needed, and some users make use of it on a regular basis. So this isn't at all an unreasonable option, but it's up to you if that's something you would be comfortable doing.
Once you get done with the saw cuts the wood should be as safe as you could hope for, and suitable for running over a jointer or thickness planing.
Alternative approach
Do the processing by hand, exclusively or mostly with hand tools. So, starting with rip and crosscut panel saws, possibly a hatchet (for wasting edges and splitting off), and a scrub plane or other roughing plane.
Because of the pace of work, and the nature of the tools themselves, it can be almost risk-free to process wood with nails in it manually; I have planed down to staples, brads/nails, and even a hard modern screw once or twice, without ever doing unrecoverable damage to the plane3, although admittedly others have had different experiences including chipping the rear of the mouth opening.
I suppose the primary power tool you could use to help with this process is a jigsaw4. And at worst you'll trash a jigsaw blade or two, not an unreasonable expense for what you're getting at the end of the day (even if this is 'only' softwood).

1 Do your due diligence here. Because of how relevant it is to your situation the video I referred to above in the Comments would make a great starting point; the original title was different but it's now What did a tiny nail do to my $10K table saw? As you might expect there's quite a bit on the forums related to this topic, and probably much more on YouTube.
2 But not necessarily as brittle as you might have been led to believe. This is one area where you can expect to notice the quality of your blade's carbide, since tungsten carbide is by no means a single, uniform, entity as so often implied (just like HSS isn't, as you might already know if you have a lathe and have tried various makes of turning tools). This is one of the genuine reasons for some saw blades costing a lot more than others, rather than it just being a name premium or the maker recouping their fat advertising budget :-)
3 Other than one deep scratch to the sole (which doesn't affect function in any way) the worst I've had to deal with is a minor nick in an iron and a worse, but still superficial, gouge to the leading edge of a cap iron.
4 I suppose you could use a reciprocating saw for this, as they're used for demo work their blades are most definitely up to the task (I doubt you'd even notice sawing through these nails as far as increased resistance goes) but this type of saw may be too uncontrollable for what you need here. A jigsaw is slower, safer and has much greater potential future utility to the average woodworker.

A:

Short answer for this: no, there is no way using ordinary wood shop equipment to safely mill wood with embedded iron in it.   Jointer, planer, and bandsaw blades will be ruined by even small amounts of iron.   Carbide table saw blades will survive some cutting of steel or iron, but will be dulled significantly, and may experience damage.    Iron also may trigger your SawStop if it's a big enough fragment, if you don't disable the mechanism for each and every cut.
If there is a relatively small number of nails to deal with, I would remove the remaining bits of iron by coring the nails with a small bore carbide or bimetal hole saw, then plug the resulting holes with cores cut from near the end of the timber (to minimize shortening of the resulting boards), then mill it.   If there are very many, I wouldn't bother.

