Q:

Hanger bolts on chair legs keep coming loose

I have a dining room set consisting of a table and 4 chairs.  I bought them used, the only indication of brand is a "Made in Taiwan" stamp.  I'm under no impression that these are anything fancy, but they look and work great with one exception...
The front chair legs are mounted with hanger bolts, and they are continuously coming loose.  (See pictures below.)  I don't think this is a typical use for hanger bolts - from what I've researched, they're usually used vertically inside round legs, which allows them to spin tight.
I keep tightening these durn bolts, and they just keep backing out.  I believe the wood threads spin out of the leg enough that the lock washer doesn't do anything and then the nut just spins off.  Unfortunately there are no cross-braces, so it doesn't take more than a few days of a 4-year old wiggling before the chair legs are loose again.
I'm thinking about replacing the lock washer and nut with lock nuts, or just replace the whole mess with a large wood screw, but not sure if there is a better way to get these chair legs to stay put.
Interestingly, the TABLE legs are attached the exact same way, but I haven't had any problems with them - probably because the table doesn't get moved around like the chairs do.
Any suggestions on how to best get these chair legs to stay firmly attached?
Chair leg structure:

Hanger bolt:

Front of wood brace: 
(I didn't realize until after uploading this picture that this one is in pretty sorry condition with two of the screws probably not doing much - the rest are in much better shape)

The back legs of the chair (haven't had any problems with this setup):

A:

Changing out the washers for fresh ones might do what you need here, these loose oomph after a while because they get compressed and apparently fresh ones can make all the difference. 
But I think you answered your own Question here — swap out the nuts for locknuts. Note these are likely to be metric threads (M8 etc.) in case you live somewhere that commonly uses Imperial threading.
Alternatively you could use thread locker on the existing nuts. If you don't have a commercial thread-locking liquid nail polish is a decent enough alternative. Colour doesn't matter :-)

