Q:

Drilling into the edge of plywood

I want to make a little wooden construction to house a bird inside during winter for a few days when it gets too cold outside.
I want to be able to take it apart quickly so it doesn't take up much space.
I was thinking of using dowels to keep a few plywood panels together. No glue, no  frame, no nails or screws.
To do this I would have to drill into the edge of plywood to fit in the dowels. Now I've heard people say you shouldn't drill into the edge of plywood, because the glue would loosen and the fibre sheets would come apart. I've seen the sheets of plywood come apart due to moisture and wood rot, but does it really happen by just drilling into it? Should I avoid drilling into the edge of plywood to put in some dowels? Thank you.

A:

If you aren't locked into the dowel joints you've described, consider to make the build with a variation of the tab and slot assembly, but increase the tab and add a slot in the tab as well for a wedge:

The original source of the above image describes it as a loose wedge joint and is constructed in the images from solid plank lumber, but I don't think that's a requirement for your project.
You would have to cut slots to pass the tabs through and ensure accurate dimension placement, but I think it would be quite workable.
My search for tab and slot returned a reference that doll houses use this method because the plywood is thin and can't be easily joined using other methods. No reference was made to the ease of disassembly, but that's fairly clear. Tap the wedges out in the opposite direction and you have a flat-pack ready to go into the box.
If your plywood is thick enough for wood dowels as part of the joint, you could combine the tab and slot and add a couple of dowels for additional strength. Overall you could get away without glue in any of the joints.
You'll need a good drill bit, the diameter of which should be the thickness of the plywood, a sharp chisel and mallet and a hand saw or coping saw to cut the tabs.

