Q:

Building a sturdy kinda narrow and tall freestanding shelving unit for boardgames

I'm very new at building and working with wood in general. Had 1 project before this one but it was just a bunch of acoustic panelling frames.
I want to build a shelving unit for boardgames similar to the "BoxThrone", standing 79 inches tall, 33.5 inches wide, and 17 inches deep. The darker pieces are 2x4s, and the lighter pieces are 1x3 furring strips.
The idea is to have 2 kinda empty spaces in the middle to place any number of 14 by 14-inch shelves of any height (I'll be using pilaster strips for this) in such a way that it's completely freestanding without having to worry about it breaking apart if it's moved. I also kinda want to put it on wheels... and not have it up against a wall.
Is this design ok? Is this sturdy enough? Or is it way too overbuilt?
I'm really not sure and would love some feedback on this design.

A:

"Boxthrone" is a brand name for a modular steel shelf unit designed specifically for game boxes. It has shelves that can be adjusted to fit different sized boxes. Since each game box has it's own shelf no other box is shuffled when any one game is pulled from the shelf.

There are many ways to make shelves.
A basic shelf made of 2x4s with plywood shelving

This design in 2x4s is stronger than it needs to be to hold games.
Based on your initial drawing it seems like you are comfortable working with 2x4s.  You'd size this to your specifications.
The design as drawn gives you four shelves.
If you:

Delete the middle two shelves
Add a solid plywood back for horizontal support
One more vertical support on the middle front. At 33.5 inches wide one vertical support 2x4 in the middle.
you could use metal shelf tracks (shelf standard) and metal shelf supports (Pilaster clips).

The shelf standards would be installed at each of the four corners. You could go with one shelf standard in the middle front and one in the middle back as a support for a continuous shelf.
Or you could go with two shelf standards in the middle front and two in the middle back to give you two independent stacks of shelving.
You could use wood or wire shelving that would offer flexibility similar to the Boxthrone.

Often the self standard sits in a groove in the wood so that it's flush with the wood surface. That's a great way to go but it is simpler to mount the self standard on the surface of the wood.
Hope this helps
I wish I had some drawing tools to make all this clearer.

