Q:

Do I need any support for 2x8' shelves jointed with dados?

I'm want to make some 8 foot shelves with 2x8s. I want to set them in a 2x8 on each side with dados. It's my understanding that an ideal depth for the dado is 1/3rd of the thickness, so I would cut them at 1/2".
My thought (hope) is that with a 2x8, this is sufficient. That the shelves should remain straight over time without the need for any support across the middle of the shelves.
What say you?

A:

Even for many worst cases in terms of load (lots of heavy books) and the stiffness of individual boards this should give an acceptable result. With multiple rows of paperbacks or particularly heavy hardbacks you may get visible bowing, but it should be within acceptable limits.
The figures given in the Sagulator are a useful starting point for basic shelves like you're planning but don't give a fuller picture. So if your shelves need to support significant loads (particularly in the middle) and you want to err on the side of caution here are some factors to consider.

Cherrypick your boards1 so the grain is as uniform as possible and with the fewest and smallest knots. No knots would be the ideal, but may be impossible on a practical level.

Because the species used in the 2x material you'll be buying is an unknown2 it's impossible to be know in advance what species you're actually buying, and therefore what to select in the Sagulator. This goes beyond the wood being S, P or F (spruce, pine or fir).... even if they are pine there are multiple species used across the US and they vary enormously.

So, aiming for the best in relation to both of the above, depending on your location it may be worth buying 2x10s or 2x12s and ripping them down to width. In addition to this very likely allowing you to select for more uniform grain and fewer knots, the species chosen for x10s and x12s is often better wood than that used in 2x material of smaller dimensions3.

1 Even if this requires more than one visit to the vendor, or checking the stock in more than one vendor
2 This goes beyond the wood being S, P or F (spruce, pine or fir).... even if you knew for sure they were pine there are multiple species used across the US and they vary enormously.
3 Boards of larger diameter possibly being SYP versus white pine or a spruce.

