Q:

Interpreting an illustration (fig. 311) in Robert Wearing's The Essential Woodworker

Robert Wearing in The Essential Woodworker says (p. 153):

Fig 311 shows a fairly typical bookcase with the shelves removed. The back consists of a frame with a centre muntin and four horizontal rails. Six panels are grooved into the frame. Such a framed back is a most effective way to stiffen up a carcase.

In the illustration, are we looking at the front or the back of the bookcase? If the back, then why does Wearing bother saying "with the shelves removed"? Do the "four horizontal rails" span the entire width of the carcase? Is the muntin that vertical piece in the center? Does the muntin divide the interior space of the bookcase in two or does it only run along the back of the carcase? Is the muntin anterior or posterior to the four horizontal rails? Is it attached to the rails or does it merely abut them? If attached, then in what fashion is it attached, or is that left open to personal taste? What parts in the illustration make up the frame, exactly? And since the six panels (I take it that these panels are the three big areas on the left and the three big areas on the right) are "grooved into the frame", does that mean that they have tongues that are fitted into the rails, and that all the rails are grooved?

A:

Typically, when a bookcase is discussed "with the shelves removed," it's referring to the back of the bookcase. The reason for mentioning the removal of the shelves is likely to provide a clear view of the structure and construction of the case itself without the shelves obstructing the view.
The horizontal rails would span the entire width of the carcase to provide stability and support. As for muntin it would indeed be the central vertical piece. Whether it divides the interior space or runs along the back would depend on the specific design of the bookcase.
Also in many designs, the muntin is posterior to the horizontal rails, meaning it's closer to the back of the bookcase. It could either be attached to the rails using joinery methods or merely abut them, again, depending on the specific design.
Now the frame.. It usually refers to the outer structure that holds everything together. It would typically include the sides of the bookcase and the horizontal rails. And yes, when panels are "grooved into the frame", it typically means that the panels have tongues that fit into grooves in the rails. The rails, muntin, and potentially the sides of the bookcase would generally all be grooved to accept the tongues of the panels.

