Q:

In which order to add risers and treads to stairs?

I've read many guides that show that risers are added to stairs before the treads. What is the reason or does it not matter?

A:

Risers generally go first when installed in situ because the risers couldn't be fitted after the treads are in place, or not as easily. Sometimes it is all risers first, then the treads, sometimes it's riser, tread, riser, tread etc. working from the bottom to the top.
Of course whether you're retrofitting an existing staircase or building a new staircase makes a big difference, since in a new build you're doing the assembly work sideways with the stringer flat on the floor. In this case riser and tread can be fitted together (with any reinforcing blocks) and then installed as a piece. 
When doing a rebuild whether you have access to the undersides of the stairs, or not, is also a factor. Various design specifics may also affect whether you work top-down or bottom-up, since in some cases the design forces you to work in a specific direction because of how the treads and risers fit together (housing joints or dados, interlocking rebates/rabbets or plain butt joints throughout).
Some illustrations will help clarify some of the above, see how in both of these traditional designs it would be impossible to fit the risers if the treads were fixed in place:

Source: Carpentry & Joinery, Frederick C. Webber, 1898
Note that since the tread on one step must be in place before the next riser in ascending order you're forced to work from the bottom upwards. Despite how this may sound this is still riser-first, since the bottom riser would be the first part fitted :-)
Now see how in this modern stair you must have access to the underside in order to do the work:

In this case when originally built I'm sure the risers and treads would be assembled and then installed as a unit. 
Note how difficult it would be to replace one or more treads on a design like this, impossible in some cases without rebuilding the entire staircase!

