Q:

Routing out recess for base plate - router table

I want to make a mini router table.
The base material is a type of birch plywood with 15 layers or so, 21mm thick.
Well if the dictionary serves me right, it's actually called "textured coated board" in English, (Siebdruckplatte in German), i.e. birch plywood with phenol resin coating or something like that - rough on one side, very smooth on the other.
Then I have an 8mm thick, 20cm x 10m, or so, cast aluminium plate, pre-drilled to fit one of those cheap Katsu 101750 hand routers.

Now, that aluminium plate has rounded corners.
I first want to route out a rectangular region (with rounded corners) to only 8mm depth, to maybe a finger's width or two of the outer circumference of the alu plate towards its centre - leaving a rim for it to rest on at 8mm depth, making it flush with the upper plywood surface. And then completely cut out the inner rectangle, so the hand router can be mounted to the plate from the underside.
How do I do this to match the rounded corners of the aluminium plate perfectly?
Do I need a straight router bit with exactly the same radius as the corner, or can this be done with smaller bits?
I guess it could be done with a guide bushing (correct English name for "Kopierhülse"?) and some sort of frame with rounded corners - which has to be larger than the alu plate by exactly the same amount... no idea of how to efficiently produce such a thing.
Side note for the worried: I did also buy a quality safety switch which ensures it will stay off after the end of a power outage. (and a momentarily-on foot switch, eh... to boot!)

A:

The nice thing about round corners and routers is that the automatically make them round.  In this case you could make a frame that you follow with the router on the inside.  if you use a bushing guide, the frame can be smaller since it will sit under the router as it follows.  if you don't use the bushing, you need to add the distance from the bit to the outside edge and add that to the guide distance.
You don't need to worry about the your guide having rounded corners, because neither the router base nor a bushing are going to get 'into' the corner, Your round router bit will ALWAYS leave a round corner on the inside, so finding a bit that has the same radius would be the simplest solution.  Then you just need a square guide the 'right' size and run the router around.
Graphus pointed out that the correct routing direction in this situation is the opposite to 'normal'.  So take care!

