Q:

Why does direction matter when using an electric router?

I was watching an episode of the Wood Whisperer on YouTube, and he was making a frame for a mirror. At one point in the video he was going to put a round-over on the frame and was using an electric router for it. He said that the rule is "on the outside of the frame, go counter clockwise; on the inside go clockwise". He didn't give a reason.
Now, I am a hand tool guy and my idea of a router is a good old Record 71.
Image courtesy Record Planes
I understand grain direction and wanting to work with it; not against it. From what I have been told you generally don't have to worry about it when using power tools. Why would the direction you are going around a frame matter as stated in the video? 

A:

It has to do with the rotation of the bit.  In a normal cut, the work piece is fed against the rotation.
A normal cut works like this (shown for freehand):

The cutting action will pull the work piece into the bit.  
The other cut, is known as a climbing cut.  It pushes the work piece away from the bit.

A climbing cut will have less tear out, but requires more control of the router to keep it from pulling away and injuring the operator or damaging the work piece.  
A normal cut is safer in all instances.  The tear out that can happen can be eliminated by using a backer board to support the wood at the end of the cut.
See this link at Lee-Valley tools for a complete description (images are from Lee-Valley)

A:

It has to do with the rotation direction of the bit. You want to go 'against' the rotation with your pass, rather than 'with' the rotation (called a climb cut). This pulls the material toward the bit, but can splinter the last section of cut since the bit will be pushing out of the material.
There are times when you want to make a climb cut- if you have especially frangible material, you might make a climb cut for the last 1-2", then go back to the other end and start a regular cut- less tear-out at the end.

A:

When you are hand cutting, you push the sharp edge of the cutting tool into the wood so that it makes a cut, you don't drag it along the wood backwards waiting for it to wear down the wood via friction. 
The same holds true with a power tool. When looked at from the top of the router, the bit will spin clockwise. In order to push the cutter into the wood when moving around the outside of the picture frame, you would move the tool counter-clockwise. 
Once you jump to the inside of the frame, in order to keep the cutting edge of the bit pushing into the wood, you want to use the 'other' side of the bit and go clockwise.
If you're going the wrong direction, the bit will want to 'run' along the surface, and not cut cleanly into the wood, leaving you with an uneven cut.

