Q:

What is the difference between a sabre saw and a jig saw

This is more out of curiosity. I came across the term sabre saw and tried to figure out what it was. 
Searching the internet turned up results for both a jigsaw:

...and a reciprocating saw:

This leads me to wonder if sabre is a descriptive word to describe a reciprocating blade mechanism found in both jig saws and reciprocating saws. Or is it another type of saw?

A:

Currently Saber Saw and Jigsaw refer to the same tool.  My Dad always called the top item a Saber Saw.  Up through the 1980's, the hand held tool was referred to as a Saber Saw in Popular Mechanics, but was called a Jigsaw by the manufacturers.  
The name Jigsaw predates hand held tools by about 100 years.  It then referred to what we now call a scroll saw.

This 1977 quote sums it up perfectly:

“For one thing, with a scroll saw (sometimes called a jigsaw) you will be able to do all the curved and intricate sawing you would like to be able to do with a saber saw (sometimes also called a jigsaw), but can’t.”

There is an entire article on the history of these names found here.
The item on the bottom photo, often known by the tradename Sawzall, was invented by Milwaukee Tool Company in 1951 as the first electric hacksaw. Generally known as reciprocating saws, they are typically used for rough cuts and demolition.

A:

Questions like this will lead to contradictory answers. There are some main points I would like to make to aid in everyone's answers.
Experience
Experience plays this role very well. As you are introduced to tools you will typically accept what you are being taught. If my dad handed me a jigsaw and called it a Lemon Mutilator that is what I would have called it.
Location
I had mentioned this in comments but your region plays a big part in this. A simple example would be: trunk and boot. They are the same thing but it depends which word you use in which region (US and UK respectively).
Time
Time also changes things. I had a question about quarter-sawn lumber and the meaning of that term meant something different decades ago. If you asked wood workers of different generations what a piece of quarter-sawn lumber was they could give you two different answers that are both right.
The "Sabre" Saw
I have a theory that both of the saws you have pictures are the spiritual ancestors of the "sabre saw". As the tools evolved into their respective uses, intricate and rough, the naming might have become convoluted.
I would like to come to CharlieHorse's defense at this point. I found an old advertisement for a Weller Sabre Saw. Its the tool Mr. Mantle is holding.

If you look it is making intricate cuts much like a jigsaw would. Modern jigsaws don't have the same design as they do in that picture. Those changes might have driven the name change as well (Warning: This sentence contains speculation). Mostly trying to show that time changes things.
Here is another one just to show that its not just one manufacturer.

At the End of the Day
I have always seen the tool above, in your question, as a jigsaw and the other a reciprocating saw. Until today I have never even heard the phrase Sabre Saw. If it gives context I am 33 at the time of writing this.

A:

It's another one of those dastardly terminology issues - I think woodworkers are particularly prone to calling different things the same thing, and the same thing different things depending on who you ask!
I would disagree with CharlieHorse's answer and call the top pictured saw a handheld jigsaw, and the bottom pictured saw a sabre saw or reciprocating saw. Again in reality they are both types of reciprocating saw, and the term "jigsaw" can also refer to a fixed/bench-mounted version of the same thing as the handheld one shown above. 
For my own definition I would say that a jigsaw has a shallow blade, and is meant for doing fine, controlled/intricate work generally to thin boards (like a jigsaw puzzle!) whereas a sabre-saw has a deeper blade and is particularly suited for doing fast but rough cuts and is of particular use for demolition when removing old windows or other timbers. Both sabre-saws and jigsaws can also be fitted with metal-cutting and other types of blades.
A further distinction is that what I call a handheld jigsaw is always meant to be used with the large flat base guide on flat material, whereas with the sabre saw it's often used as a quick "cut-off" saw without relying much on the guide, which is usually smaller and may be mounted non-rigidly so that you can easily follow contoured material.
Wikipedia currently claims that the top pictured saw may also be called a sabre saw, but I've personally never heard of it being referred to anything other than a (handheld) jigsaw. To be clear, "reciprocating saw" would be (in my mind) the general term for any type of saw where the blade moves back and forth.
Edit: I've done some research on Makita's, Ryobi's, Black and Decker's, and Bosch's websites (all large power tool manufacturers:

So they would tend to agree that the top is a jigsaw and the other one is a reciprocating saw, though I'd still contend that a "reciprocating saw" is a valid term for any kind of saw where the blade moves back and forth.

