Q:

How did I bend this router bit? What safety or operating step did I miss?

I turned on my compact router with a tongue cutting bit installed. Immediately after I hit the on switch I heard grinding noises and felt the router try to wobble out of my grip. I turned off the router as fast as I could and to my shock and horror saw the bit was making contact with the side of the base. I was holding the router in the air when I turned it on, and I feel extremely lucky I didn't end up in the hospital.
I need to have a better understanding of how this happened and what I did wrong before I will be comfortable using a router again. My googling hasn't yielded any results and I was hoping somebody here might have an idea.
Notes:

As far as I can tell, nothing was touching the router bit when I turned it on. For better or for worse I was holding it in the air. Part of a clamp holding the work-piece in place was sticking up into the air near the router, but I did not see any damage to the clamp that might indicate it had been struck by the router.
I'm using a makita compact router with plunge base (the plunge base doesn't fit on the router anymore, but the router itself seems OK)
Here's a link to the router bit I was using
Here's a two star review for the bit that sounds really familiar (found after I started drafting this post)
It's possible I did not tighten the bit enough, but prior to this incident I had successfully cut a tongue on a different work-piece without issue. I did not adjust the collet tightness in between.
I typically try to position router bits so they are about 1/4" away from resting against the bottom of the collet.
I had my speed setting at 3/6 when I turned on the router. The manual says this is about 17,000 rpm.
I haven't been able to find any max RPM ratings for this bit.
Obligatory: I am new to wood working. Thanks in advance for your wisdom, patience, and mercy. I was really enjoying this hobby up until this scare.

EDIT: After reading @blacksmith37 's comment. I put the offending bit in a vice and used a socket wrench to try and bend it. It bent easily and eventually snapped.
video

A:

According to this chart from Woodcraft, you were probably in the correct speed range for that bit.
The real issue is that you are asking too much from a 1/4" shank router bit of this type.  You'll notice that all of the reputable vendors (CMT, Whiteside, Freud) all use 1/2" shank for this type of bit.  Small routers have their place, but this type of work isn't it.  Look for a bigger router that takes both 1/4" and 1/2" bits.  A fixed base router such as the Dewalt 616 of 618 would be a step in the right direction.

