Q:

Floating (kinda) book shelf support

I'm planning to make a bunch of shelves in-leu of a bookcase (see picture). Individual shelves will be attached by a small corner bracket to the wall and to two support posts approximately in the middle of each side.
The question is about support of support posts. Posts themselves are 2 glued 1x0.5 inch oak planks. The corner would be a glued lap joint reinforced by a metal corner (1.5 inches, 2 screws on a side) and attached to the studs with another corner. So basically this would form a rectangle with the studs. Shelves (from 1x10 or 1x12 pine, if I manage to get the stuff straight), will attach to both studs and support posts.
Will such a construction be rigid and hold up a reasonable weight? Is there any way I can reinforce this without visible cross-braces or extending down to the floor?
Thanks!
Edit:
I think I will just drop the posts down to the floor, judging from the other shelves in the house the load on the shelves will be "pile it on until there is no more space". Really those posts should be from metal pipes...
Hungarian shelves is a great alternative that I'll definitely build elsewhere.

A:

The design, as shown, will likely put way too much torque on the bottom and top joints of your vertical supports. Replace, or reinforce, the short return-to-the-wall piece at the bottom with a triangular piece.

EDIT: This answer assumes the horizontal pieces in question are simply fastened to the wall with, say, a long screw through the sheetrock and into the stud. If this is the case the estimated torque, based on the scale shown, from four shelves of books acting between the bottom edge of the short horizontal "return" and the sheetrock would be in the range of 3000 N! This could be eliminated by running these returns into the wall and scabbing them to the studs, probably beyond the scope of the project. But even then there would still be about 300 N acting to bend that member. Making it thicker in the vertical dimension could compensate for this.

