Q:

Can miter lock joints be made without a routing table?

I'm planning to build a structure of about 1.2m x 1m x 0.5m (specifically it's a 1:6 doll house) in 12mm (half-inch) ply and don't want to use internal square-section to support the corners, because this will encroach into the interior space.  
I'm considering using mitre lock joints but the information for this mitre lock bit states that it should only be used inverted.   However, I don't have a router table, nor do I have space to keep one if I bought it.   So I'd like to know if there is a technique for using this kind of mitre lock bit without a table, for example with some kind of jig.
I expect that a device like the WoodRat would be capable of doing this, but it takes up almost as much space as a roter table, so I'm somewhat reluctant to go that way.
Can mitre lock joints be made (in plywood) without a routing table?   How?   

A:

The reason the lock miter bit is restricted to the router table is mostly for safety - it is a large diameter bit, and it exerts a lot of force on whoever is holding the router, be it you or the table. In addition, using it handheld will increase the risk of misalignment of the cut, which is crucial for the lock miter to work.
I would suggest building a temporary router table - just take a piece of plywood, cut a hole (easiest with a hole-saw) for the router bit to poke out, and connect the router base plate using mounting screws (check your router's base plate to see which ones you need. You might even got some with the router). The fence can be any flat piece of wood that you can clamp while adjusting the lock miter (and you can even screw the fence in after the setup is good). The fence doesn't need to be aligned in any particular way, and it should just be flat enough around the router bit. Clamp the plywood to another table, lower the bit all the way, turn on the router and slowly raise it, so that the router bit will make a hole in the fence for itself.
Something similar to this (picture from Google Images search).

