Q:

How do I cut a large log into boards?

An acquaintance was clearing some trees from his land, and I asked him to save a section of big leaf maple so I could mill it for an electric guitar. 
The piece ended up being roughly 9" x 9" x 36". I figured I'd let it dry then saw into boards. Now, about a year later (and after learning much more about woodworking), I realize I should have had it milled before drying. It has cracked some as it dried, but should still be usable.
My problem now is I don't know how to go about milling it. It's bigger than I had asked for and I don't have the tools to break it down.
Here is what I have:

Circular saw (7.5")
My grandpa has a 10" table saw
Handsaw (18-24")

I'm not sure I like either of those options. Seems like the blade could bind, and while the piece is too heavy to kick back on a table saw, it could burn up the motor, or toss the circular/break my wrist.
Do I chalk this up to beginner's mistake and scrap the idea, or is there something I could still try (bandsaw, chainsaw, etc.)?
Note: This question is different from What is the process, from start to finish, for milling a tree into boards? in that this question is about milling a chunk of wood that is small enough not to require or justify the size of tool (e.g., bandsaw mill or chainsaw mill) which is usually used to mill large tree trunks. As @bowlturner pointed out in a comment, it also may be too small for some such mills.

A:

Building a bandsaw sled and using a bandsaw with 10" or larger resaw capacity is the first power tool solution that comes to mind. Matthias Wandel has a nice article detailing how to do this.

Since you mentioned you only have access to a circular saw and table saw, the cheapest solution, aside from finding someone with more tools, would be to rip the block of wood into boards with a handsaw.

(Source)

A:

To make the first 'cut' I would split it in half.  I personally would use my wood maul and just split it.  I've had years of splitting wood for firewood and could do a pretty even split down the middle.
So, what I would recommend would be to use a large mallet or a round ended maul and pound it into the wood to split it.  To make things a little easier you could take your skill saw and cut a line across the end, making several passes to get it to the max depth of the saw.  Then use the wood wedge to finish splitting it.
Once you have the two halves, you should have an easier time cutting it into boards.  The table saw could square it up and probably do most of the work needed. Though a band saw would work better to make it into boards.

A:

I'm of the same mind as Matt- you'd need a large capacity band saw, a chain saw then a big band saw, a chainsaw mill, a portable mill, or.. any number of large, expensive tools. 
Were it me, I'd ask the folks at my local wood working stores (Rockler, Woodcraft, etc) If there's a mill they know that will take a random chunk of wood. If they don't know, ask them if there's a local wood working club- one of those guys will likely a) have a big band saw, or b) know someone who does.
Additionally you may find out that the center of it isn't as dry as the first few inches. So you may be milling it into rough sizes and waiting another 8-10 months.

