Q:

Workbench Leg Spacing

I am planning on building my first woodworking bench based on Rex Kreuger's Quick-stack design. This is a knock-down Roubo style bench where the base is stiffened with wide stretchers instead of mortising the legs into the benchtop. Kreuger's design is for an 84" long bench with a 14.5" overhang on each end to accommodate the vises.
I want to construct a bench that is only 60" long and 34" high. If I maintain the 14.5" overhang then the outside separation between the legs is only about 31". This design looks considerably less stable to me than the original 84" design with its 55" leg spacing. On the other hand there is a lot of mass in both the 3.5" thick top and the legs (I plan to make thicker legs than the original plans) so the center of gravity should be low enough.
What leg spacing is needed to have a sturdy and functional workbench of this type? I intend to use the bench for primarily hand-tool woodworking.
Are there disadvantages to moving my 10" face vise to the right of the leg and eliminating the overhang? I could also reduce the overhang to as little as 11" but this would reduce the jaw grip on the left side.
I have been reading Christopher Schwarz's Workbenches and while there is plenty of discussion about bench length and mass, there is no mention of optimal leg spacing.
Here is a sketch of my proposed 60" bench design:

A:

Your design should work as designed.  Extending the bench beyond the legs is fine at 14.5".  The overall weight and length of top should be adequate to prevent any tipping forces at the ends of the top. There are a few other details in your design to consider.

Your side vice is positioned at the end of the front face.  This limits the length of bench face to the left of the vice to support your work pieces if they are positioned on the left.  Instead of a standard vice I used a leg vice to keep the vice further from the end.
I made a wagon vice for the end vice and placed a series of dog holes along the front length of the top aligned with the center line of the vise.  This allows me to place long boards flat on the top and clamp it at the ends for planing work.
I used similar sized legs with morticed ends fitting into the top as well, but never glued them into the top.  My bench is currently in my basement, and I wanted to be able to move it in separate pieces in the future. The weight of the top is more than adequate to keep the legs and top together (snug fit) when working and moving it around the shop.
I made my legs 5 1/2" x 6" consisting of 4) 2x6 pieces glued together. The two inner pieces create the tenon and I notched the corresponding top 2x4's as the mortice to receive the tenon.  This significantly simplified the work necessary to create the joint.
You may want to consider a shelf between the legs down low for storage.  I used loose pieces of wood for the shelf so that they could easily be removed for cleaning or changing storage needs.
You might also consider a flush front apron or sliding panel with intermittent holes to accommodate hold fast clamps to secure longer wood pieces to the side face of the bench.
BTW you cannot use mortice and tenon joints at the rear legs as designed in the sketch because of the well.

Good Luck.

