Q:

Are systainer tool cases of different companies compatible with each other?

My router came in a plastic tool box called a systainer.
It is made in a way that the bottom could interlock with the top. this means I could stack multiple of these boxes and lock them together for transport. I thought that this is a way to convince me to buy more tools from the same manufacturer.
But recently I noticed that the tool boxes of a professional carpenter from festo look similar and I wondered if they would be compatible with mine.
In a store I that visited today I saw that tool boxes from hitachi had a suspiciously similar shape and locking system.
Are all these boxes in fact the same box system that different manufacturers use? Is this some kind of open standard like screw heads, bit diameters, etc.?
Are the systainers from different brands compatible with each other? What other "features" does a systainer have?

A:

Systainers are all made by, or licensed from Tanos.  There are two main styles - the classic style and the TLoc.  The TLocs can stack on top of the classics, but not vice-verse.   Several vendors, most notably Festool, but also Metabo, Fein, Makita, Veritas, and Mirka either use or offer as an option Systainers for their tool storage.  
You can also purchase empty systainers.
There are 4 different footprint sizes of systainer.  Maxi are available only in the classic style.

Mini (10.43" wide x 6.73"deep x 2.80" high)
Normal (15.59"wide x 11.65" deep) and 4.13" - 16.53" high
Midi (19.52" wide x 11.65" deep) and 6.2" - 8.26" high
Maxi  (23.46" wide x 15.59" deep) and 6.2" - 8.26" high

Normal, Midi, and Maxi systainers are available in different heights.

Sys I - 4.13" 
Sys II - 6.20"
Sys III - 8.26"
Sys IV - 12.40"
Sys V - 16.53"

You can quickly determine the size of a systainer by looking at the horizontal ridges below the label area.  If there are none, it is a SYS 1, 1, a SYS 2, and so on, up to 4 for a SYS 5.
Drawer systainers are also available with several different drawer configurations.  They stack anywhere a classic systainer will.

See Lee Valley for other systainer options, including carts and toolboxes.  

A:

It depends.
The most notable feature of these storage systems is that you can stack one case on top of another and engage one or more latches to securely fasten it to the case below. The idea is that you can stack as many as you want, though stacking them in this manner quickly becomes impractical in terms of actually accessing your tools. 

(Source)
For the purposes of this discussion, I'm going to use the term compatible to refer to cases that were designed to latch together with strategically-placed latches, recesses, and tabs. When two or more cases are latched together, you can lift a stack of them with a single handle.
Systainer is the brand-name for interlocking tool cases manufactured by Tanos. Systainers included with Festool and Fein tools are compatible with each other, as well as with other Systainers manufactured by Tanos. The current line is called T-Loc, but these can still be stacked on top of the older Classic Systainers.
There are several competing lines of interlocking storage containers which are not compatible with Systainers. For example:

Bosch's L-Boxx line of tool cases is compatible with other L-Boxx cases manufactured by Sortimo, but not with Systainers.
DeWalt has two different lines of interlocking toolcases, Tough System and Tstak. Unfortunately, you cannot mix-and-match between the two lines.
Stanley also sells its own interlocking tool cases, but their line is not as consistent--for example, the smaller-size Stanley cases are not compatible with the larger sizes, even though they use similar interlocking systems.

If you aren't sure whether a case will be compatible with your existing case(s), you can usually tell just by looking at the product dimensions. With most of the systems, the footprint is the same for all the cases in a product line, and the cases only vary in height.

