Q:

Glue spots under stain

I have two pieces of plywood that I joined with biscuits and wood glue (wiping away all excess glue after joining the two pieces. I then sanded the whole piece down to 220 grit.  After staining there is a large light streak where (I'm assuming) glue was left.

Can this be fixed, and if so how?

A:

The problem appears to be that glue has sealed the pores of the wood, preventing stain from penetrating. In order to fix the stain, you'll first need to get to wood that's not sealed. I can think of two options:

Remove the glue from the wood. You might be able to use a solvent appropriate to the kind of glue you used to loosen and weaken the glue, and then scrub with something like a Scotch-Brite pad. How well this will work will depend on whether the glue is really absorbed into the wood or just layered on top. I've heard that vinegar can work as a mild solvent for PVA (wood) glue, so you could try that.
Remove the wood that has been sealed to get down to bare wood. In other words, sand or scrape more of the wood away. With plywood projects, though, it's very easy to sand right through the top layer of veneer.

Until you get down to bare wood, the stain won't be able to penetrate evenly and you'll continue to have problems.
Here are some strategies for avoiding this problem in the future:

Use less glue. If there's less glue, there's less to squeeze out and cause problems, but it's hard to get enough glue on the joint without having some squeeze out.
Protect the wood. People sometimes use clear packing tape to cover the wood near joints during glue up. This (mostly) prevents the glue from contacting the wood. Glue and tape can then be removed after the glue has set enough that it's no longer liquid. Sometimes the glue still seeps under the tape, though, so this isn't entirely effective.
Avoid wiping. If you don't use too much glue, you can usually just let it squeeze out and form little beads along the joint. When the glue dries (or nearly dries), it's easy to remove by running a sharp chisel along the joint.
Wipe effectively. If you want to wipe the glue away, use sponge or towel that's quite damp. PVA glues can be cleaned up with water before they dry, so you can wipe excess glue away with water. You need to be really thorough if you go this route since any glue you miss will likely be pushed into the wood, resulting in the same problem you have now.

One of the big hassles with glue stains, as you've discovered, is that they can be hard to detect until you stain or finish your project, and they're a pain to fix at that point. If you have this problem a lot, you might be interested in Titebond II Fluorescent glue, which glows under black light so that you can clean up before the glue dries.

