Q:

What are the best substitutes when nothing labelled as "Denatured alcohol" can be found in your area?

In the process of replacing methanol solvents (methyl hydrate) in my shop with arguably less toxic ethanol-based "denatured alcohol", I've encountered difficulty in finding any product labelled exactly as "denatured alcohol", and at a decent price. I suspect this varies from area to area, as ethanol sales are often fraught with legal constraints. I am in Canada, BC.
What is the best "thing" to use to dissolve shellac flakes, considering health side effects (fumes, spills, accidents, etc.), and price? I'll need to make a gallon (4L) of shellac.
My original question was here, but I wanted a place to share new findings about potential substitutes.

A:

I've found two products readily available in BC that one might not suspect to be denatured alcohol, but despite not having "denatured alcohol" written anywhere on the product, they are denatured alcohol.

BioFlame: 95.6% ethanol, and 4.40% ethyl acetate.
LV Lacquer Thinner: 91% ethanol, 4% butanol, %4 isopropanol.

I'm not a chemist (please step in if you are), so I can't assess which of the following is the safest, but I think they are fairly comparable, prices set aside.
Manufacturers are not obliged to list ingredients on labels for non-food items, so one must rely on safety data sheets to determine their content. These sheets do not accompany the products, so what is in the actual bottle might vary based on when and where it was purchased. I recommend you double check your sources.
BioFlame ($26CAD/3.78L)

I was recommended BioFlame, which is available at Canadian Tire.
It is an ethanol-based combustible designed for alcohol burners. Bioflame's sales department affirms (in email) it is often used by woodworkers. At the time of this writing (early June 2018), its constituents are:
95.6% ethanol, and 4.40% ethyl acetate.
I've contacted CDNTire's hazardous substances team, and they've kindly provided an up-to-date safety data sheet from the manufacturer (Recochem).
Safety Data Sheet (SDS): p1, p2 (ingredients), p3, p4, p5 (toxicology), p6, p7, p8
(I also found an older sheet for the same product, and the product had different constituents back in 2010: 95% ethanol, and 5% 2-propanol.)
Shellac/Lacquer Thinner ($19CAD/946mL)
It's not labelled as such, but LeeValley's (LV) Shellac thinner ingredients would classify it as denatured alcohol:
91% ethanol, 4% butanol, %4 isopropanol.
Safety Data Sheet (SDS): p1, p2 (ingredients), p3, p4 (toxicology1), p5 (toxicology2), p6
I'm told "Isobutyl" is a mix of butanol, and isopropanol, and can be used as a flavor additive to make things taste extremely bad (and bitter) for non-consumption. I'll take their word for it. Do not taste it!

