Q:

Drilling very small holes in softwoods

Motivation:
Recently, I was restoring a small spice rack made of very thin and very soft wood (pine-like) - I unglued it, restored pieces and was about to glue it back together. I saw that the best way to go was to glue it all in one go, since it would be much easier to clamp when fully assembled than to glue it in steps (see the sketch).

So I decided to put a few small 2mm (1/16") dowels (i.e. bamboo toothpicks) in the pieces to make sure it won't slide under clamps.
What I did (and created "the problem"):
I drilled holes in one piece, made small "dowel pin locators" by cutting nails, marked the opposing pieces, and then started to drill them...
Unfortunately, even with a drill press, the drill wandered off by approx. 0.5mm (1/64") when it hit harder grain - that would be fine for larger hole for a larger dowel, but since it was so small, even this miniscule error was unacceptable (by which I mean the pieces would be slanted or wouldn't fit at all).
My "sort of solution"
I tried several times, but drilling just didn't work for me, so in the end I used my tiny 2mm (1/16") chisel and made square holes and used square dowels. This worked, but it took way too much time.
(In fact this was not the first time I was unable to drill a very small hole into a softwood with hard grain lines exactly where the mark was.)
The question:
Is there some fool-proof, simple and most importantly reliable way accurately drill very small holes 0.5 - 2mm (1/50" - 1/16") in softwood with hard grain lines?

A:

Is there some fool-proof, simple and most importantly reliable way accurately drill very small holes 0.5 - 2mm (1/50" - 1/16") in softwood with hard grain lines?

Unfortunately, not really.
The problem with many softwoods is the huge difference in hardness between the dark and light bands in the grain/growth rings. The dark latewood is quite hard and the pale wood in between, the earlywood, is soft to very soft and presents a path of least resistance that drill bits are prone to following.
Even with a distinct starting mark from a sharp awl drill bits can wander into the soft part of the grain, even when the bit entered the wood in just the right spot initially. Remembering that grain is three dimensional, and just under the surface a growth ring can be vertical or veer off steeply to either side, so the tendency to drift is unpredictable to say the least.
Using brad-point bits (also called lip-and-spur bits or dowel bits) instead of the common twist bit can help, but we soon run out of sizes as the hole size goes smaller. And for very tiny holes the only bits commonly available are twist bits.
So, since we sometimes have to live with a hole that isn't quite where we wanted it workarounds are necessary.
Drill the secondary hole larger
You transfer across your hole positions as normal, and then deliberately drill an oversize hole so that you're sure the dowels will not be skewed to one side or not fit at all. Note that this requires a gap-filling adhesive is used.
This isn't ideal for a few reasons. For starters, someone might not want, or be able to, glue with epoxy or another gap-filling adhesive, but more importantly for this specific use-case it doesn't provide the exact positioning of the parts that was the initial requirement.
Where you can, use through-dowels
With through-dowels hole alignment is automatic because the entire hole (the holes in both pieces of wood being joined) is drilled in one go. So a minor miss-positioning of the initial hole from the desired position – the hole in the 'top' piece – automatically translates to the position for the second hole in the 'bottom' piece.
Bonus option
This is for the specific initial problem you outline, rather than a complete replacement for dowels as an alignment aid or reinforcement.
Essentially what you do is the following, but then stop:

I drilled holes in one piece, made small "dowel pin locators" by cutting nails

The clipped-off nails generally have little difficulty in embedding themselves into the next piece of wood and already do what you wanted to do, prevent sliding around after the glue is applied and the pieces are brought together under clamp pressure.
This is an old trick and used in both softwoods and hardwoods, but the harder the wood used the shorter the clipped-off nails need to be to ensure that clamp pressure can make them penetrate fully into the next piece of wood — if overlong they'll act as 'standoffs' and prevent the workpieces coming together.

A:

Is there some fool-proof, simple and most importantly reliable way accurately drill very small holes 0.5 - 2mm (1/50" - 1/16") in softwood with hard grain lines?

Nothing is foolproof, but there are some things that can help prevent deflection:

sharp bits: Some people never think to sharpen their drill bits, but keeping them sharp helps them cut through harder areas more easily, limiting deflection.
fairly high speed: Higher speed allows for more cutting action. It can also cause heat to build up, though, so withdraw the bit periodically to clear the hole and give the bit a moment to cool down.
feed slowly: Like the higher drill speed, feeding slowly gives the bit more time to cut straight instead of deflecting.
limit the bit length: The more the bit sticks out from the chuck, the  further it can deflect. Small diameter dowels don't usually need to be very long, so the holes don't need to be deep. You don't want to tighten the chuck on the fluted part of the bit, of course, but there's no use in having more than a millimeter or two of the unfluted shank sticking out from the chuck. Also, it's not uncommon to snap small bits, and you can often sharpen the snapped bit to make a shorter but stiffer bit.

