Q:

How can I flatten the floor of a small carved box?

So I've drilled and carved out a small box. The Forstner bit that removed the bulk of the insides left a load of little holes in the bottom. The finish is far from perfect.

I've tried working it with a chisel but we're talking about a very small opening, around 30×40mm. I've also tried a flat-top grinding disk on the Dremel. That's not really gritty enough and spins so fast it just burns.

Is there something else I can use to finish the bottom of this little box?
I don't (yet) have a router but even if I did, I'd need to find an extraordinarily good way to clamp it. I do have a good drill press. I can handle the corners manually.

A:

Paul Sellers has a video on making a Poor Man's Router Plane using a chisel and a block of wood.  Depending on the depth of the box, this method may work for you.
NOTE:  I take no responsibility for sending you down the Paul Sellers video rabbit hole. :)

A:

I'm going to expand somewhat on my Comment above. 
Hide it
I don't think you're would be really happy with any smoothing option here so I strongly recommend you just sidestep the issue and line the box :-)
This isn't the cop out it might appear to be, small decorative boxes are commonly lined in various ways (baize, flocking, rouched fabric) and it finishes off the interior nicely. Certainly more attractive than a bland wood surface!
Thinking outside the box
The box bottom doesn't have to be a single piece with the sides. 
Drill out the current bottom, or cut it out with a coping saw, and throw it away. Smooth off the sides with files (or sandpaper glued to sticks if you own no suitable files) and when you're happy with them you make a new bottom.
Mark through the hole onto the face of a board then cut it to shape and glue it in place. The new bottom can be a matching or contrasting wood as you prefer.
In addition to working around the current problem without having to make any more purchases, and struggling to refine a difficult-to-work surface in a difficult-to-access position, the bottom of the box will become a long-grain surface and not end grain as it currently is. End grain doesn't finish well that easily but long grain does. Additionally long grain is frequently more attractive if you want the bottom of the box to be wood and to be visible.

A:

A suggestion of perhaps the wrong tool but a good result nonetheless. A milling machine uses end mills for removing material both from the sides and bottom of a work piece. It is a very bad idea to use an end mill in a drill press to remove material from the sides of a work piece, but not as bad to use an end mill in a drill press to remove material from the bottom. The "bad" part is due to side loads on the drill press, which isn't a factor when using only the end of the mill.

You may be able to find low prices online to meet your requirements. Having the stability of a drill press improves your chances of a good result compared to a hand-held rotary tool.

