Q:

What type of paint would be suitable in terms of durability?

I'm looking for a type of paint that I can use on a small children's desk. The desk is a simple round design with 4 legs. I would like to use a paint that can take a beating. I was thinking of using outdoor paint, like for a house. Is latex based a good choice?
Note: I have to use paint rather than a "clear" finish because the recipients want a certain color. Also, I'm using an MDF core plywood so I need something that will cover the edges nicely. 

A:

If you are willing to spray a finish, I think the go to would be lacquer.  This will provide a hard and durable finish that is frequently used on furniture, cabinets, etc.
Paint is always an option though will probably not provide as durable of a finish as lacquer.  As for latex or oil, it is really up to you based on what you're comfortable working with. They both have their pros and cons.  Latex is definitely easier to clean up and in terms of child friendliness, will put off less VOC's than oil paint will.
For added durability you could apply a clear layer of varnish or shellac on top of the paint.

A:

I was thinking of using outdoor paint, like for a house. Is latex based a good choice?

Yes but you'd probably get better results from a dedicated indoor paint. 
While paint for outdoor applications seems like it would be toughest much of it is actually formulated to provide flexibility (to deal with the substrate expanding and contracting due to temperature swings and moisture changes) and permeability (to allow the substrate to dry effectively after rain). 
On the other hand, indoor paints can be made harder/tougher because they emphasise scratch-resistance and don't need to factor in the exposure to water and wide swings of temperature an exterior application calls for. 
So if you're after maximum durability I would recommend you go with an interior paint specifically formulated for interior trim and/or furniture. 
Unfortunately the specific product names used across the industry can be very unhelpful here (latex paint being the classic example, since it contains no latex at all!) but if you can find it locally I would recommend an acrylic enamel. 
Your local paint supplier may be able to help you with a similar product if they don't stock something named exactly that. 

