Q:

Is it safe to use a compressor stored for a year in an unheated shed?

I had a compressor sit in a shed, not directly exposed to elements but to whatever moisture is in the air (I do live in a high moisture location).
There was virtually no water to drain from the tank when I pulled it out since I did drain it before putting it away often enough.
Can I use it? Is there danger of corrosion?

A:

The question asked:

Is there danger of corrosion?

Yes.
The question not asked:

Is there any danger to be worried about from this corrosion?

No. See reasons below

The question asked in comments:

Wouldn't the pressure build up to 150lb and then the corroded tank will explode sending metal shards flying?

No.
I've had 3 air compressors sitting in my uninsulated, unheated garage over the last 30 years. The first two were replaced (each after about 15 years - just got the 3rd last summer) due to physical damage and my inability to find replacement parts (and lack of desire/skills to fabricate them).
They were left plugged in and turned on for long periods of time (like a year at a time) with very little use. This means they would run, sucking in dryish winter air and very humid (80+%) Midwest US air, slowly leak pressure (as they're wont to do), then run again to bring the pressure back up.
Once a year or so when I'd remember to drain the tank, I'd haul one outside, blow out some nice brown (rust laden) water, close the drain plug, roll it inside, plug it in, and ignore it for another year or more. No, this is not the proper way to care for a compressor.
As noted in a comment, how often do you hear of compressor tanks exploding? Never. I'm sure mine are not the only, nor the worst, abused compressors on the planet and it's just not a problem.
Additional support for the lack of concern comes from the Mythbusters. They shot a scuba tank (pressurized to 3000 PSI) with a rifle and the tank didn't explode (watch about 2-3 minutes of the video to see the results of the shot). Therefore, it is extremely unlikely that your tank will explode due to rusting from the inside out. Granted, the tank, with 3000 PSI rocketed around and you wouldn't want to be in the way. However, a pin-hole puncture at 150 PSI or less probably won't move a 40+lb compressor much, and even if it does, it's still not an explosion.
What is likely to happen is that a tiny pinhole leak will eventually develop and air will escape. When you run the compressor, air will be used through the hose for your intended purpose, and air will leak out this small hole constantly. Your compressor will cycle more often trying to maintain internal pressure. You'll be annoyed by the more frequent running. You'll be annoyed by the high-pitched sound of air escaping through the pin-hole. You will not catch shrapnel from an explosion.

