Q:

How can I ensure my threaded inserts go in straight?

I'm putting threaded inserts into a MDF base.  When I start to screw the insert in, the thread digs in at an angle and pulls the entire insert in at that angle.  I thought it would straighten out when it got further down the hole, but it still managed to go in kattywompus.  Now, the knob and bolt look like some tower in Pisa.
What tricks can I use to ensure a threaded insert goes in straight?  Is this just a problem because I'm using MDF instead of hardwood?

A:

There are specialised drivers for these which might help -- or you could make your own by using a bolt with one or two "jam nuts" to keep the insert from gravelling up the threads. Use a long enough bolt to make any tilt more visible, hold it straight, drive the insert, and back the bolt out of the insert (backing off the jam nuts if necessary).
Promised illustration: I didn't have an insert handy, so you'll just have to imagine that the dark cap nut is the insert. Assemble like so, preferably with a longer bolt

Then tighten the nut down firmly against the insert. This will force the nut to press up against the bolt's threads while pressing the insert down; that outward pressure should produce enough friction to lock both against rotating on the bolt. Now drive this assembly into the wood as if it were a screw, using the bolt as both guide and lever to make sure it goes in straight. Once the insert has been set, you should be able to hold the bolt in place while loosening the "jam nut", releasing the bolt and nut from the insert.
If you're driving several, a slightly more elegant version would be to use two nuts, locked against each other, at the right point for a washer (optional but can't hurt)and the insert to slip on below them. This is driven the same way, but you should then be able to back the bolt and locked jamnuts out of the insert as a unit without having to do anything special to the nuts; just leave them locked. Obviously that means your inserting tool is immediately ready to be loaded with another insert.
(Feel free to use a bolt with another head design, whatever you've got a good driver for -- this is just what came to hand first.)
As I said, there are commercially made drivers which operate on the same principle: thread the insert on, drive, back the threads out. If you're doing a lot of these that might be an investment worth considering. But for just a few, this does the job.
Late Addition: Some inserts are designed to be driven with a hex key, which has many of the same advantages.

A:

Speaking from a metal working background, we always used a drill press (not running, of course) with the tap drill inside the insert to keep them straight and to ensure proper starting/seating.

A:

You could try using a bit of threaded rod and a drill press to keep the insert straight. Link

