Q:

Improve Grip on Shavehorse

This weekend I was using my shavehorse to make some wooden spatulas.  After a while, the head started losing grip on the pieces I was working.
To help improve the grip, I wrapped a piece of leather around the top crossbar and tacked it into place.  While I don't have a picture of this, you can see the crossbar above the platform in the image below.

Adding the leather seemed to help a bit, but the issue still remained.  Looking a little closer, I noticed that the surface of the platform was getting burnished, which would explain why it was so slippery.
At this point I was out of time to work on stuff, so I set it aside.  I could add another piece of leather to the platform, which would probably help with grip.  However, I'm curious if there are any other ways that I might increase the grip of my shavehorse.

A:

To help improve the grip, I wrapped a piece of leather around the top crossbar and tacked it into place. ...Adding the leather seemed to help a bit, but the issue still remained.

I suspect that the leather is one or both of the following, 1, too thin, 2, too smooth (much modern leather has a glazed surface and not inherently suited to this application). 
You could try using the flesh side of the leather you have, but in addition or instead of this I think you should pad the leather from the back so that it can deform around the workpiece more and that will improve the grip substantially.

I'm curious if there are any other ways that I might increase the grip of my shavehorse.

Push with your legs harder. 
It sounds too simple but this is precisely the mechanism that the shavehorse/shaving mule is designed to take advantage of. 
This should sort of happen naturally as you work the wood so it may indicate you're sitting a little further back on the bench than is ideal, so that your legs are initially more extended than they should be. 

A:

It may just be the perspective or the setup of the photo, but it appears to me that your shave horse is not adjusted quite right.  When you push on the footrest, the swinging arm should not have to travel very far past vertical, and the grip should not be able to swing closer to you than the platform.
You should either use a taller platform or, better yet, you should move the grip further down on the swinging arm (with your shave horse, this will mean adding more holes).  In your comment, you also mentioned raising the pivot, and that would be even better than simply lowering the grip. Either of these adjustments to the pivot will give you significantly more hold-down pressure without having to exert more force on the footrest.
As you might recall from grade school or high school, your mechanical advantage with a lever is the ratio of the lengths on either side of the pivot. So if the footrest is 24" and the grip is 12" from the pivot, you have a 2:1 mechanical advantage. If you bring the grip down to 8" from the pivot, you now have a 24:8, or 3:1 mechanical advantage. If you instead raise the pivot by 4", your mechanical advantage is 28:8, or 3.5:1 (i.e., 3.5). Raising the pivot point even higher will amplify your hold-down pressure even more.
One final suggestion: make sure your platform is not too smooth.  It shouldn't be necessary to add friction material; but if you do, add it to the platform that the workpiece rests upon, rather than adding it to the grip (top crossbar).

