Q:

Is it possible to reinforce my plywood table?

I've "made" a table with plywood. Plywood thickness was 15mm. Here is a model (one remark - the 30mm distance is 85mm actually, but it doesn't matter at all for now).

I've used 40mmx40mmx2mm corner braces for all the plywood sheets to get them together. My "table" is varnished with yacht varnish.
The obvious problem I didn't expected was that 15mm plywood is really thin, so my table top sags ~1-2cm up and down.
I'd like to ask you about possibility to reinforce the "table".
My thoughts for now:

decrease distance between lateral ribs from 1465mm to ~1400mm (and cut down rear rib as well);
increase thickness of all the ribs twice - I'm going to get the same 15mm plywood, remove the varnish and glue each pair of plywood sheets
fasten additional corner braces

Can I go with that, or there are some better ways?

A:

I don't think that any of your proposed solutions really address the heart of the problem.  The core issue here is that the material you used for the top is not rigid enough.  1/2" ply is not generally thick enough for large structures like table tops and cabinet boxes.  For that you'd really want to use at least 3/4" (19mm) ply.  (Typically 1/2" material is used for drawer boxes and bottoms.)
Moving the sides a few inches (60mm) closer together isn't going to make enough difference in the span length to resolve your issue, and thickening the legs or corner joints isn't what you need.  You need a more rigid top.
One option would be to double up the top by laminating a second sheet of 1/2" ply to it.  This might be trickier than you think, though, as you'll need some way to apply pressure to the entire surface while the glue cures.  With 3/4" ply I would put screws in a grid every 5-10", but 1/2" material might be too thin to reliably screw into.  Your best bet might be to stack weights (i.e. a pile of bricks) on it.  Obviously any finish on the underside would need to be removed first.
Another option would be to attach bracing to the underside of the table.  You could use the 1/2" material you have already, ripped into thin strips, say 1-2" wide.  Glue them to the underside of your top (on edge, perpendicular to the top, not flat).

