Q:

How to make a mitre cut along the width of a board with hand tools

I'd like to cut a miter along the width of a wide board using hand tools. I've searched online and have not found any resources so maybe I'm using incorrect terminology.
Say I have a board that is 12 inches wide and I want to make a mitre cut along the end to join it to another 12 inch board. How can I cut this with a hand saw? My miter saw can only cut to about a 2 inch depth.
I use hand tools and prefer Japanese saws. My goal is to make a cabinet with waterfall joints.
Here are some photos that hopefully help illustrate what I'm getting after.

A:

You can freehand the cut with a hand saw.
Start at one corner, carefully lining up the saw with your 45° angle mark, then slowly work into the cut. You'll want to cut primarily along the edge of the board to establish the angle, but also into the face so you're moving along the face while you establish the angle.
To help get the angle correct, you can use a speed square (or other block with an accurate 45°) to rest the blade of the saw against to get started. You can move the speed square along the face of the wood as you cut to maintain the angle if you find that helps.
As you're cutting stay a little proud of the line so that you can finish the cut with sandpaper to get precisely to your measurement if you need it to be that accurate.

You can plane it. 
A simple block plane should make pretty quick work of this soft pine. An advantage of the plane is that you don't need to be precisely on a 45° angle until you're cleaning up and finishing the cut. If your hand wobbles a bit, it won't matter as long as you don't go so far that you're dipping past your "Cut Here" line on the face or past the corner on the back.

You can sand it.
It'll be slow and tedious and you'll go through a lot of sandpaper, but you'll get there in the end. It has a similar advantage to the plane in that your angle doesn't have to be precise until you're reaching a finished edge.

