Q:

How to make a joint between two pieces of wood look good?

I’m building a counter top and I had to join two pieces of boards with some glue in between. The countertop looks pretty okay, but the joint is very obvious and when I clean it with a bit a water, it jumps straight in your eyes. I’m planning to add epoxy on it, which will make it very obvious. The wood has some pattern therefore it is a bit hard to make it fit, so I added a filler, but this did not solve the problem. I’m thinking that it might be useful to artificially add a know there, since that’s the pattern, but I don’t know how to do that or even if it is a good idea. I really need some advice to solve this.
Here is how the joint looks, with the patterns around

A:

A butt joint is  is not very strong and is likely to break if any wood movement occurs.  There are many other ways to handle joints like this that will improve their integrity and diminish their appearance.

The simple butt joint such as in your photo could be improved first by making sure that the pieces meet square throughout the cross section  or better yet, providing a slight bevel with the pieces being longer on the top and a 32nd less long at the bottom. If the pieces are forced together the top grain will fully meet.
Better yet the connection should have a lap joint such that the two sides are held by a fully glued lap of 1" or more.  IF properly prepared with square corners the two pieces can be finessed to fully contact.
The individual boards do not have to meet in one line.  IF you stagger the pieces the joint appearance will not be as obvious.  Think of wood flooring.
You can emphasize the joint by providing a contrasting wood piece at the intersection running perpendicular to the counter top.  While wood expands and contracts differently in width and length the overall joint length is too small to be a problem.  Making a contrasting wood as a design feature may require you to make more than one such joint to provide some design symmetry. Such a feature piece would have a spline connection to the end grain pieces on both sides.

