Q:

How to join at an angle?

So I'm building this bookcase. Birthday/wedding present for my middle child.

Sides are bamboo (originally supposed to be hotel stair treads)
6' x 11" x 1"
Horizontals are African Mahogany. 10.5" x 1" x variable length.
Sides lean out @ 15 degrees. 11" spacing between the shelves.
Total weight of the bookcase is ~105lbs. Add 100lbs(?) of books.
I saw this design online a few years ago, and of course cannot find it again to see how he did it.
Tools and skills
Typical homeowner tool selection. Drills, table saw, circular saw, Kreg pocket jig, a dozen big clamps, router, sanders.
Not averse to buying something new to get this done.
Skills = just on the unskilled side of 'medium'. I can build a mean deck.
Aircraft mechanic and computer programmer (engineering mindset).
Degree of difficulty - the vertical sides cannot be replaced. I only have the two, and so cannot screw up any holes or cuts.
The shelves, I have spare material and can get more. At $7 bd/ft, my wallet would cry, though.
How to join the horizontals with no visible means of support?
No visible stiles, braces, brackets...
My current thought is pocket screws from under each shelf, into the bamboo sides.
I have enough extra mahogany to create enough sawdust to mix with glue and plug the pocket holes.
Secondary thought is screws from the outside of the sides, into the end grain of the shelves.
This also involves somehow covering over the screw holes with matching (something).
Of course glue with whatever solution.
Due to the off angles, I'm not sure I could pull off dovetails or mortise and tenon.
Other joinery options?
Convince me why pocket screws will not work or are a bad idea.

After much cutting, swearing, and sanding...figured you guys would like to see the finished product in its forever home.

In answer to the actual "question", I went with dowels.
3/8" x 2.5" long, through the side panels.

Added in progress:
Full size mockup with cheap 1x2

Side panel strength:
70" span, supported only at the ends, 195lbs of me in the center. 12mm sag

Glued and drying:

In its forever home, loaded with 100+ hardback books.
Look Ma! No collapse!

A:

Another vote for dowels here. It's about as easy to use dowels as it is to fill pocket screw holes with dowels. Just dowel the joints and skip the pocket holes, or use both. Screws aren't a great option for shear-strength - I wouldn't rely on screws to hold up a shelf without dadoes, supporting rails, dowels, or something more structural.
What's your plan for controlling parallelogram stress here? Usually a back panel is the option. Without something like that, you need very serious joints. Pocket screws don't cut it.

A:

I'd suggest setting your shelves into the uprights with a dado joint. You'd rout a channel into the uprights for each shelf, and bevel the ends of your shelves at 15 degrees. It would have as much glue surface as a mortise and tenon, and you'll get a rock solid joint.
I did something similar 20+ years ago for the steps in a ladder for a set of cherry bunk beds.  (I know, I know :-). You can see the wear and tear in this picture, but the joints never budged.

In this design, the steps project out beyond the uprights, so the dado goes all the way through.
It looks like your shelves are set flush in the back and inset back a half inch in the front.  So you'd have to rout the channel "blind" in the front, and square it off with a chisel.  Overall, it's a bit more work than dowels, but it would be significantly stronger. 
Good luck with whatever you decide to do.

