Q:

Building new router table by re purposing components of an off shelf router table-need advice

I have this router table http://www.canadiantire.ca/en/pdp/ma...-0546841p.html which is exactly 2' wide
I am building a router table top from a piece of high density MDF from Home Depot. The size is 2'x4'
I need help with positioning the fence, the router plate and the tracks, and selecting the right type of track

The router plate: should I put it in the middle (A) in the picture or in one of the other (B,C,D) positions. Please explain your recommedation
Should I run the fence along the length of the table (as depicted) or should it be the other way?  
3 For the traversal track in the figure (always parallel with the fence, what type of track should I use ? U slot or T track?  

Update: the longitudinal rails could also support a fine tuning/high precision fence push mechanism based on something like in the 2nd picture below. I will update the diagram to show that

Here is what inspired me

Update 2: The size of the table is somehow dictated by the supporting frame which I grabbed from PrincessAuto here in Canada for $50. It can take up to 100lb. The table is foldable so the space does not become an issue and the table is designed (not shown here) to be able to remove the existing top and replace it with a different one with different functionality. I have no idea how big will the pieces of wood be for my probects but as I mentioned above I will mostly need this for cutting slots and making joits needed for all sort of custom storage units that I will need in different places in my house. The size will vary from full size shelves (floor to ceiling) to small box joints and picture frames. Slots for T tracks for various jigs that I might want to make will be another application. 
Update3: OK here is a better concept and use of the table area

Update4: I have rotated the picture and positioned the saw as recommended in the second answer
Update5: here is the fence idea that I am inclined to implement. The pictures are not very clear

A:

If it were me, I would run the fence along the longer dimension, as that will give your workpiece the most support both on infeed and outfeed when using the fence. I would also probably in that case shift the router insert forward towards the 'front' of the table, closer to your body so you don't have to lean so far, as well as to allow the most amount of travel for the fence.
Is there a reason that you have the left portion of the table sectioned off?
What do you plan to use the router table for? Running longer linear stock against the fence lends itself to the longer orientation I mention above, but if you plan to do a lot of flush trimming and roundover work without the fence, you will want to be able to have work space on all sides of the bit.

