Q:

Options for invisibly mounting slats on ceiling & walls

I'm building out a van conversion and want to mount a few dozen wooden slats to the walls and ceilings, similar to the picture below.
I'm trying to figure out if it's possible to do this with invisible mounts.
My first thought was keyhole slots, but that's probably not a great option for a moving vehicle. Any suggestions?

A:

Option #1, brads or nails
A brad nailer or pin nailer may be a good solution here, with or without the help of a little adhesive.
The smallest gauges of brads and pins (18-23 gauge) shot from nailers produce very small holes that are considered unobtrusive enough that many don't even bother to fill them. And with 23 gauge the holes are so tiny that they are very hard to locate even when you know they're there on woods that have visible grain lines — this sadly is not the case with the cypress you plan to use, but I think this is still an option worth exploring1. A picture's worth a thousand words here so:

Source: Shop Gadget: 23-Gauge Pin Nailers on Woodsmith.
In addition to being relatively cheap (verrry cheap if you can rent or borrow the nailer) this solution will also make installation really fast.
While the hold from a 23-gauge pin nails is usually considered too weak to hold anything permanently by themselves shooting them in dovetail fashion, like this \ / instead of like this | | will increase the holding power greatly. You'd need to do some experiments — particularly incorporating vibration I think — to confirm they'd work for your application, whether they'd be enough on their own. If you have doubts a tiny dab of adhesive could be added to each pinning location2; between the two of them I can't imagine the hold would not be sufficient, and lasting.
Option #2, don't aim for invisible
If you abandon the idea of invisible mounting entirely you could embrace a number of options where you make a feature of how the slats are attached.
Brass slot-head screws have long been considered attractive enough that they can be seen on fine furniture, and combined with brass cup washers (AKA countersunk washers) they make an even better-looking fastening solution:

But not gonna lie, this would make installation considerably slower.
If you don't need a completely flush installation normal brass cup washers, which raise the screw head very slightly above the surface, are also quite attractive and offer significantly easier installation.

1 The holes could be filled and made practically invisible if you plan to finish the wood, however this would involve a fair amount of extra effort for perhaps minimal gain.
2 Rather than normal wood glues PU construction adhesive or another product that works similarly may be perfect for this since the noticeable film between the slats and the nailing strips or other backing will help dampen vibration.

A:

I can think of a few options:

Screws installed from the back. If you can build the slat panels outside the van and then install them, you can screw through the supports into the back of the slats. This would give you the secure, invisible connection you're looking for.

Nails or staples from the sides. If you're lining the walls of an entire van with slats, you'll want fasteners that go in fast and work well. I can't think of a better tool for that than a nail gun or a staple gun. If you fire the fasteners at an angle through the sides of the slats and into the supports, they should be pretty well hidden. A dab of glue at each joint could also help.

Glue or construction adhesive. (Credit to aebabis for suggesting this first.) Adhesives can be very strong, and again you'll get that invisible connection. Installation will be much slower than with a nail gun since you'll need to clamp each joint until the glue cures.

Magnets. Probably not ideal for the whole project, but if there are areas where you might need to remove a slat for access, magnets might be a solution. If you inset steel magnet cups with rare earth magnets on one side of the joint and inset steel washers on the other side, you can get a connection that won't come apart until you want it to.

Keyholes. You suggested it, and I think they could be a good idea. To make it work, you'll need the following: 1) A way to locate all the keyholes and the mating screws precisely, so that they'll all line up; 2) a gauge to set the height of all the screws the same way; 3) some sort of thin, compressible material (weatherstripping?) to go between slats and supports and stop rattling, because you'll never get all those connections tight; 4) a way to lock the slats in place once installed. On that last point, I imagine sliding the slats into place, and then installing a piece across the ends that stops them from sliding backward.

Hope that helps.

