Q:

How to bend maple for window sill restoration

We're remodeling a bathroom in a house built in 1920 and we're trying to stay (mostly) true to the original design. The thing we love most about this house is the woodwork. It's simple but very elegant.
The biggest problem with the bathroom remodel has been the lead paint on the trim around the window and doors.  We want to do stain and varnish instead (like the rest of the house [even if it was originally painted - though it had been halfheartedly redone numerous times based on evidence from our demo, so it's hard to tell what it was like originally]).  After trying and failing with stripping the wood, I'm putting my dad's hand-me-down tools and my novice/mediocre carpentry skills to task.  So I'm basically remaking all the pieces of the window.  All the cuts are very simple and straightforward except when I got to the sill...
As with any other window sill, it slopes outward, but I was surprised to notice that the top piece of the sill curves from level to sloped!
My dad originally surmised that it actually had sagged over time, but when I looked closer, the cuts of the "wings" seem to go with the bend (though perhaps I'm mistaken).
I bought Maple boards at Lowe's yesterday and was duplicating all the pieces to later stain, but I'm not sure how to duplicate this.  Was the sill cut this way?  Did they "bend" it somehow?  How can I reproduce this?

A:

Like in the comments, to me that isn't the original intention, but years of aging.  wood bends and cups and twists.   You have gravity you have paint on one side, but the bottom  not so much, so weather and rot have softened it allowing it to cup or sag (take your pick).  I've worked on several old homes and that is just one of the things age and weather does to wood.
I cut and dry my own lumber and I have plenty that naturally cup like that and then I have lots of work to 'fix' the problem.  I would go with the straight boards and I think you'll be happy with how sharp it will look.

