Q:

How do I drill greater than 7 inches in from the edge of my sheet of wood?

From the drill press's supporting pipe to the drill bit tip measures 5". I believe this limits me to drilling no farther than 5" in from any given side of my MDF sheet. Unfortunately, I need to drill 7" in from the edge of my MDF sheet.

Is there anyway to accomplish this with the drill press I currently own? 
If not, are there alternatives to a drill press that can be used for accurate holes? 
Or.. Is there a place that rents time on a drill press that could drill 7" in from the side of a sheet of MDF?

The drill press I have access to:

A:

For drilling single holes in the middle of a piece of wood you can use a drill bushing to keep the bit perpendicular to the piece.  I use this from Big Gator Tools.

You can also use your drill press to drill a bushing hole through a thicker board (about 1-1 1/2" works well).  If you go this route, you can make the bushing for any angle you need, and place several in a line.
If you have to drill shelf pin holes in the side of a cabinet for adjustable shelves, you can use a shelf pin guide to keep consistent distance between holes.  These are available from a variety of vendors at a wide range of price points, starting with basic kits such as this from Milescraft.

A:

Is there anyway to accomplish this with the drill press I currently own? 

As far as I can see, no.

If not, are there alternatives to a drill press that can be used for accurate holes? 

Yes. You can actually drill very accurate holes (accurate in all senses: position, diameter and squareness to the surface). Note that for accurate positioning marking out must be done accurately beforehand, and centre marks or pilot holes are advisable.
If you need to drill holes square to the surface there are various techniques and tricks that can be used, some of which are covered in a previous Q&A: How do I ensure my drill is perfectly vertical before cutting a hole in my desk?
Unfortunately drilling freehand with Forstner bits is not really recommended (some guides and manufacturers of the bits say outright not to do it) and it would be difficult to ensure good results consistently. Obviously if you need to do this using a hand-held power drill you can go ahead and try, but it's highly recommended you drill practice holes first in scraps of the MDF you'll be using. I would recommend slower speeds and light pressure, do not be tempted to rush.
These practice holes may dissuade you from trying this freehand, in which case other drill bits may begin to seem an attractive proposition, see Which type of drill bit for which jobs?
The job you have to do here is one reason I'm such a fan of swing braces and have given my opinion that they're very viable even today. An inexpensive older brace with a vintage 1" Jennings or Irwin auger will drill all the holes you'd need with little effort and are capable of great accuracy with only a little practice, and proper initial layout of course.

Or.. Is there a place that rents time on a drill press that could drill 7" in from the side of a sheet of MDF?

Yes for certain places, but obviously this is very location-specific so we can't answer that for you.

A:

I would say I am at best, hobby level. But when I had to do something like this in the past, I would use the drill press to drill holes into a template piece of wood. Something thin enough to not get in the way but thick enough to hold it's form. 
Then chalk line the end MDF, place the template in the right spot. Clamp everything down really well. Use a hand drill to drill the actual holes, and just go slowly. 
The forstner bit, will actually help a lot with this. Because it is thicker the template wood piece will help keep it straight up and down until you're far enough into the MDF that it keeps the shape for you too. 
The ideal wood for the template piece needs to be cheap, and a little thicker than your bit is deep.

