Q:

How to prevent table saw blade vibration gouges?

I'm very new to table saws, and am having trouble getting a clean cut. The blade cuts fine most of the time, but every once in a while something goes wrong and I'll get a big gouge in the wood.
Here is a picture of what I mean, done on the thinner edge of a 2x4:

I've measured the depth of the gouge, and it's 15 thou. That seems really extreme, especially considering how smooth and perfect the rest of the cut is. This kind of gouge makes fine furniture impossible.
I know the table saw is correctly aligned; that's the first thing I did when I got it. The fence is parallel to the blade, and the arbor has practically no run-out. A splitter was set-up behind the blade, and the blade I used was brand spanking new.
Here's a video of me making the cut shown earlier, so you can see my set-up and feed rate:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mr-1Yj9Ra44
Anyways, from what I can tell, the blade vibrated/wobbled a bit and that's what caused the gouge. I could probably reduce the chance of this happening by cutting in several passes, but when I tried that before I still got the occasional gouge. Any ideas on how I can fix this?

A:

The blade cuts fine most of the time, but every once in a while something goes wrong and I'll get a big gouge in the wood.

In my experience, this isn't really a big gouge.  When you're running a board through your saw, there are a couple things that could happen:

Your hand could slip and not press the wood tight on the fence, making it jump into the blade a bit
The wood could relieve some internal tension, pulling itself away from the fence and into the blade.

The fence is parallel to the blade, and the arbor has practically no run-out.

"Practically no runout" is not "no runout."  I suspect that a little bit of runout is at work here too, in addition to what I highlighted above.  Also, if you have a cheap, thin blade, it could be wobbling during the cut.
Looking at your video, you have a more "contractor-grade" table saw.  These are not truly meant for fine woodworking tasks, so some level of slop is expected.

Here's a video of me making the cut shown earlier, so you can see my set-up and feed rate:

You seem to be running the board through your saw very slowly.  Unless you're cutting a very hard wood (or your blade is very dull), there's no reason to feed that slow.  That pine board should be cut in about 3-5 seconds.

This kind of gouge makes fine furniture impossible.

No, it doesn't.  You'll just need an additional step to clean up the gouge when it happens, such as giving it a few swipes with a smoothing plane or sanding it.  A fifteen-thou gouge is no big deal.
Understand that your table saw will not make a surface that is ready for finishing.  The table saw is for breaking down wood into the sizes you need and getting the dimensions correct.  You will need to do the final finishing with sandpaper, scraping, planing, etc.

A:

I took a long look at my table saw today and was able to find two things wrong:

The splitter was too close to the fence. This was causing friction between the board and the fence, making it hard for me to push the board through. This was part of the reason why I was feeding the wood so slowly.
The blade was angled very slightly towards the fence. I thought I had it set to exactly 90 degrees, but I was wrong! I've heard that having the blade on a negative angle like this makes kickback more likely, so chances are it makes gouges more likely too.

I fixed all of these things, then re-cut the 32 feet I needed. This time, I had the blade raised slightly higher, and I fed at a faster rate.
The result? No more 15 thou gouges! The wood is now very smooth and usable.

A:

Possible reason:
Hard to say but your hands shifted so the wood is not evenly pressured left/right throughout the cut.
Possible solution 1:
Install a feather board to press hold the wood in place right/left-wise.
Possible solution 2:
Cut it half a saw blade too thick and do another cut at the exact width. Though the blade might flex then.

