Q:

Traditional keyed mitre joint or using through dowels

Looking to build some overhead cabinets in a van. These will be made from plywood probably 3/8" unless I can get away with thinner.
Ideally I would like to use finger joints, but without a table saw I'm stuck. However I could use a router.
I've seen a lot of videos on keyed mitred joints, the ones that go all the way through. Where you get that nice contrast of wood.
Then I've seen similar joints but made with through dowels. I was looking at one key per 2" of travel along the edge and maybe something similar with the dowels.
What are your thoughts with regard to ease and strength with these options?

A:

Ideally I would like to use finger joints, but without a table saw I'm stuck. However I could use a router.

Yes you can just as easily make finger joints/box joints with a router (generally using a router table1) as with a table saw. And as usual with the comparison, probably more safely.
Finger joints are awesome and they look great, however for overhead cabinets they are serious overkill. They are a great way to get approximately the strength of dovetails with all that interlocking wood and glue surface area, but this sort of strength is generally not needed except on standalone pieces which might be moved a lot, bumped into etc.
Obviously there's potential for the overheads in a van to be bumped into as well, but, since most van build-ins don't rely on finger joints and hold up perfectly fine it strongly suggests that sort of strength just isn't required....

I've seen a lot of videos on keyed mitred joints, the ones that go all the way through. Where you get that nice contrast of wood.
Then I've seen similar joints but made with through dowels.
What are your thoughts with regard to ease and strength with these options?

This isn't a contest with regard to ease (dowels win comfortably as I'll get into below).
But whether one is stronger than the other is an open question because of the variables involved2 and although there are comparative tests that include both options the results are not consistent. So we're left with what our guts tell us, and for one person that'll tell them the keys add more strength and for another that dowels are the winner.
Although I'm a big fan of dowels to be fair I think we must consider the strength contest a wash without more data3, but dowels still win hand down because of various advantages that go beyond the speed and simplicity. Here's an incomplete list of the advantages:

For a start no jig or complex setup is required, you just drill a series of holes and glue in matching dowel and that's most of the work done. Plus it uses a tool that almost everyone has already, which is nice.

The box doesn't need to be completely glued together before you drill for the through-dowels, which means you can work one corner at a time if you want to or it's convenient for any reason — say if you only have one or two corner clamps.

Commercial dowelling can easily be found in most places and is generally cheap. Don't overlook bamboo skewers as a source of strong and thin dowelling material, especially valuable when working with thinner stock.

If convenient or necessary, joinery dowels are very easily made in the workshop by various means, including using a very crude dowel maker if no other option is available (see Paul Sellers's Poor man's dowel maker). And making short dowels suitable for joinery is a superb way to use up skinny and short offcuts that otherwise have little potential use except as kindling.

Dowels don't have to rely mostly or entirely on glue strength because they don't have to go in perpendicular to the surface, but can be driven in dovetail fashion (also referred to as toenailing) like this: \ \ | / / or like this \ / \ / \ / which ads a mechanical advantage. With through-dowels this is always worth doing for added strength since it requires zero additional effort; align the angle along the axis of the second piece and there's almost zero risk of blowing out the side.

In case it's not obvious, since you're using mitred corners you can (and should) drive dowels in from both sides of each joint. Offset the hole patterns so they don't intersect!

1 Doesn't have to be a formal router table, a sheet of plywood, MDF or even particleboard/chipboard with a hole drilled through, clamped to the edge of a table, can be perfectly adequate for many operations.
2 The shape of keys, whether they're 'flat' or done at angles, the diameter and length of the dowels, the species used, of course the number of either and possibly also the spacing.
3 Although with thinner material (under 1/2" / 13mm?) I don't think there is any chance dowelling isn't vastly stronger because there's so much less glue area possible for the keys and a limited amount on the mitres themselves.

