Q:

Are drain holes in a wooden bird house necessary, and if so, what's the best way to make them?

I'm asking a few wood working question in relation to an owl box I'm making to put on my property. My question is about drain holes in this and any bird box.
I've always put drain holes in bird houses I've made, because they've called for them. However, they don't make much sense to me. It seems like any bedding or nesting material would absorb any pee, and there wouldn't be enough to need draining. I'd also think that general debris would clog any drain holes.
Firstly, do you guys think that drain holes are necessary? The only real use I can think of is that they might be for any rain that gets in. However, if nesting material and bird crap get in them and clog them up, they wouldn't even drain that. It seems to me that it'd be more important for air circulation to get rid of any toxic fumes like ammonia from the pee and to evaporate any liquids.
Secondly, if you think they are necessary, how do you recommend doing them. Would you just use holes, slots, or like some I've seen, would you chamfer the corners of the bottom so you have a vent on each corner? Will any liquid even run to these vents or would you need to work the wood to have some kind of slope to direct it to the corner holes? Thanks for the help.

A:

Drain holes are necessary
Obviously the inhabitants of the house still have to get in somehow. Seal it up all you want but they will need an entrance. That entrance would be a means to allow rain to enter (I suppose maybe ambient moisture as well). Yes, you will have an overhang but wind will still push water in. Some styles of house don't have effective overhangs especially larger ones, like bird hotels, where they cannot cover all spaces efficiently. Yours will not be the case.
Urine is not really an issue. Like you said it would most likely be absorbed in the nest.
Depending on your choice of wood sitting water could encourage the wood to rot which you don't want. As mentioned in a Birdhouse Selection Guide mold would also be a concern.

Make sure your birdhouse has drain holes in the bottom to let out water. This is important to keep mold and bacteria from multiplying.

Make your holes
One in each corner would be best so that no matter which orientation of the birdhouse the water can exit somewhere. Small 1/4" holes would be more than sufficient and then let gravity do the work.
Need to be careful though as too many could allow more wind to get in reducing the overall temperature. So don't get all hole happy. Birds might not like that and would either not nest there or could move. 
Summary
Overall it does seem like a good idea to at least have the one drain hole. This allows for a little air circulation as well. Sure debris would get in there but doubt it makes and air/water tight seal. 
Sidenote: Also as a birdhouse owners we are supposed to check for debris and such things after the inhabitants have moved out as part of proper maintenance. This is to extend the houses life. 

