Q:

Cleaning "kitchen dirt" from old spice rack pieces

I'm restoring 60+ years old small spice rack for my mum - I've "unglued" it with a heat gun and now I don't know how to clean it - it's now in several small pieces, ranging 5cm to 30cm (2" to 12") with thickness from 4mm to 1cm (1/8" to 3/8"), made from pine (probably) and it's quite dirty and black - mostly from grease (it was very close to the stove). It doesn't have any recognizable finish anymore, so it just looks like dirty planks of wood.
I want to clean it, smooth-plane it, glue it back together, put some nice finish on it and give it to my mum for her birthday.
I originally (before ungluing) thought, I would just plane the pieces until they look good again, but since most pieces are too thin, I feel this is not an option (there may be almost nothing left).
I could just replace the thinner pieces, but the only value this spice rack has is a sentimental value and I don't want to replace anything if I can.
So I'm looking for some way to clean the wood (it doesn't have to look perfect) without losing too much of the wood (in thickness I mean).
If I get no usable answers, I'll probably just use dishwasher soap, some steel wool and hope for the best - but I'm afraid I could ruin or warp those little pieces..
What safe and gentle method would you recommend?

After cleaning:
I tested it on upper surface of the bottom (where spice jars would sit).
First I used scouring pads with dishsoap, that made most difference.
Than I tried mineral spirits (naphta) which made it a little better but not much.
Finally I planed it with a smoother plane - in the end I planed it from 6.2mm to 5.9mm (both sides planed) - i.e. I planed off 0.3mm (less than 1/64") - mostly because there was a lot of raised grain (even before cleaning).
For the rest of pieces I used only soap and planing, that was enough!.
The grease stains clearly haven't penetrated the wood deeply (which is what I was scared of) and it's great - I'm quite happy with the result!
Here are the images from the test piece:
Original state:

Scouring pads with soap and a few minutes scrubbing:

Mineral spirits (naphta) + paper towels:

After planing:

A:

I want to clean it, smooth-plane it, glue it back together, put some nice finish on it and give it to my mum for her birthday.

Sounds like a plan. If I had gone to the trouble of taking the item apart as you have this is precisely what I'd do — clean most of the grease from the wood, then plane off a minimal amount to get it spotless. Planing is an excellent way to get under a soiled surface to reveal the pristine wood hiding underneath.
Regardless of whether the wood is bare or has traces of finish on it you can still clean it in the same ways, using the same things that you'd use to clean work surfaces near the cooker1, including multi-surface cleaners or 'grease and grime' ones.
A more woodworker-y solution is arguably to go straight to one or more organic solvents and these can work really really well, and they come with zero worries about introducing warping as there are with most commercial cleaning agents that are based on water. Not that I'd be overly concerned about warping, since you can can clean and dry carefully to avoid most/all of it (drying on edge being a top tip) and correct any that does occur using various tricks.
Solvent cleaning
Based on experience cleaning a kitchen that hadn't been cleaned in years I would strongly recommend the second option here, and specifically to use white spirit (US: mineral spirits). This is an absolutely brilliant grease cutter, and another advantage of not introducing water is you don't get that semi-emulsified gunk that can be so gummy and hard to rinse away. You will need plenty of white spirit and loads and loads of paper towels, probably much more than you're expecting, but this would be my method of choice. I would follow up with a final once-over with another solvent2 if planing weren't the next step.
It would be advisable to arrange good ventilation, or wear an appropriate respirator doing this because you'll be at it a while. Alternatively use the low-odour version.
I'd wear nitrile or vinyl gloves to avoid defatting the skin on my hands (which can smart, a lot).

I originally (before ungluing) thought, I would just plane the pieces until they look good again, but since most pieces are too thin, I feel this is not an option (there may be almost nothing left).

Because you're dealing with a softwood I suspect you won't be able to get the wood as spotless as you'd like with cleaning alone because the pale earlywood can be so soft. This is why I think cleaning the bulk of the grease off, then switch to planing, is a great option to get the wood absolutely spanking clean.
Planing
If you're good with your plane I wouldn't worry overmuch about the change in thickness, since you'll be losing approximately 0.05mm (yes point zero five, not point five) with each pass, which is literally too small a change to notice. I work with thin wood a lot, and wouldn't hesitate to plane something only 3-4mm thick (~1/8") although I'd proceed cautiously.
Scraping
If you're worried you won't be able to take shavings thin enough you could consider scraping with a card scraper or cabinet scraper instead.
Despite the reputation to the contrary you can scrape softwoods, I do it all the time and have done for years (because when I started scraping I hadn't read "you can't scrape softwoods" haha).

1 For light soiling the old standby of warm soapy water is perfectly sufficient, but for heavy grease (especially old heavy grease which has had a chance to oxidise) it just won't cut it, pardon the pun. Even with boiling water and loads of Fairy liquid (US: Dawn) on a completely non-absorbent surface you're fighting an uphill battle.
2 Meths (US: denatured alcohol) or acetone.

