Q:

How to cross cut long board on a table saw

Years ago I used a Bosch table saw for just about everything you could.
I just jumped back into woodworking. I bought the mist expensive saw I could find at my Home Depot, a $579 Heavy Duty Skilsaw table saw https://tablesaw.skilsaw.com/unbouncepages.com/6a0e251e-be4c-450c-aa21-4badcce7be7c/index.html
It seems to be missing a really basic feature though.

I want to cross cut 1ft off a 10ft 2x4...basically the simplest cut imaginable. The old Bosch let you extend the table so you could support the board over 4ft or so. The Skilsaw lets you extend the table for the fence, but there's no support between the prongs like I had before.
Am I missing something in this table saw? Is there a name for this feature? Is this a common?
Edit: here is an example of what I am thinking of https://m.sears.com/craftsman-cm-craftsman-10-in-portable-table-saw/p-00941503000P

A:

The comments on your post are correct, the table saw is not the best tool for this type of cut.  You'd be better off with a miter saw (with material supports), circular saw with square, or hand saw.  In a pinch, even a jig saw would work.
Even if your table saw had the type of support you're talking about it still wouldn't work very well because the support would be at most 3' from the blade, and the center of gravity would be 4' 6" from the blade on the cut you mentioned.  So the board would still be tipping off the machine.  (Also, you'd have the issue of keeping the board square with a relatively small miter gauge.)
If you are determined to use the table saw for this type of operation I'd suggest getting a 3-in-1 outfeed roller stand with a roller, a fixed top, and material handling "ball transfers" on it.  (It will also be useful for the more normal operation on a table saw, ripping long stock, as an outfeed support.)  For crosscutting narrow stock use the flat surface, for wider stock use the roller balls.  For outfeed use the large single roller.

I would also put an extension fence on your miter gauge or make a crosscut sled if you anticipate doing this often.

