Q:

Suggestions for finishing a pine/mahogany sword

I just finished shaping a sword out of some pine and mahogany scraps I had lying around.
I like how it turned out, so I want to finish the bare wood in a way that will enhance its appearance and protect it.  However, I have zero (0) experience finishing wood.  So I would like some advice before I proceed!  Please keep in mind a few things:

I'd like to maintain the color contrast between the blade and hilt.
I'd like to keep material quantities down since I don't know when I will next be finishing anything, and I have minimal storage space
I don't have any experience, so complex techniques may be beyond me!
I haven't glued any of the pieces together yet, so I can finish the blade, crossguard, handle, and pommel individually.

Edit: Per suggestions below, here is some more focus:
For the pine blade, I don't want to darken the color very much at all, but just add some warmth, like the boards in this photo:

For the mahogany, I have my own reference.  Several years ago I turned a chess piece from the same wood, and my friend had me apply a liquid finishing product while turning the piece at high speed (perhaps because the heat from friction helped it set?).  The result is below, next to the sword grip.  I prefer this color to some of the darker red finishes that seem common, but for the sword I would like to use a filler or something to smooth out the fibres on the surface.

The overall finish for both parts should be satin as opposed to high gloss and match in sheen as much as possible.

A:

First I really like your craftsmanship.
A satin wipe-on oil-based poly would be the easiest, using a good shop towel or lint-free rag the oil-based poly will give the wood added warmth and a very durable finish. 
A satin water-born poly will leave the colours very much as they are. 
If you use a finish like Danish oil applied while sanding (use a wet/dry paper) the slurry will fill some of the voids, this works very well wile turning and giving you a nice satin finish while bringing out the colours. 

