Q:

Finger Joints on a 2x10

I am remodeling my kids sandbox and shrinking it from 12'x 8' to 8'x8' square. It is approximately 25" in depth. I will be using two "boxes" on top of each other made of redwood 2x10s.
I am wondering how easily (or even possibly) I could make finger joints to join the corners of the wood in order to make them as strong as possible.
If this is a possibility, would be using a jig saw and some chisels be my best bet to make it happen?

A:

A jigsaw and chisels are quite adequate for making finger joints in thick stock like that. Some tips:

Carefully mark both sides of the joint, making sure to mark the waste clearly.
When cutting the waste with the jigsaw, cut away from the line, into the waste area. This will make the waste area a little too small, and can be fine tuned with the chisel.
Fine tune the joint by dry-fitting, trimming a little and fitting again. Do this until the joint is snug (meaning you can join the parts by hand with some effort, but don't need a mallet to force the parts together).
Use the jigsaw to cut away as much of the waste as possible, reducing the amount of wood you need to trim with the chisel.
Keep your chisels sharp. Even though it's just redwood, a sharp chisel is always much easier (and safer) to work with than a dull one.

Also, since this goes outdoors, make sure to use a water-proof wood glue, such as Titebond III.

A:

I would be wary of this approach myself. Joinery works best when you have a near perfect fit with no gaps. In my experience  My jigsaw is terrible at cutting vertically through a simple 2x4's. I expect you might have gaps that won't make good glue joints. That is unless you make sure you leave a good chunk of waste for the chisels to clean after so as to be sure you stay in the lines as well. 
Given the size of your wood I can't imagine that your fingers are going to be too small. Obviously you are not against hand tools so I would suggest a simple crosscut saw. You would still need to clean with chisels but some might consider this more fulfilling of a project using just hand tools! 
Can't emphasize enough the importance of outdoor glue if you choose to go this route. Finger joints expose more of the wood to the elements so you are creating more potential crevasses for water an potentially ice depending where you live. Both can reduce the effectiveness of the joint and appearance over time. 
For added strength you could drill down into the fingers (from the top and after assembled) and glue a dowel in there. That is most likely not necessary though. Also could be difficult making a ~10 inch hole and keeping it straight. 

