Q:

Using newly cut wood with dry wood

I have offcuts of Macrocarpa that I'd like to use instead of keeping them there doing nothing useful. I acquired some Macrocarpa wood that is still wet, it seems that it has been cut recently, I've had it for a month now myself. I was wondering if:

I can use the wet wood to create a wall hanging (12 by 12 inches), it will be a join of three 4 inch wide pieces. would something happen to it over time as it dries such as break apart?
I can use a mix of wood (new and dry) to achieve this?

A:

In short, don't do it.  Drying wood is subject to a lot of shrinkage and at different rates depending upon whether you measure across the grain rings (radial) or with them (tangential). (There is very little shrinkage in the length). The overall amount will differ depending upon the species (I could not find actual figures for Cypress but it should be similar to other soft woods), how wet it is and the relative humidity, but it could easily be in the 10% range. In addition the tangential shrinkage can easily be double the radial. So, all in all , there is a lot of movement during the drying process.  All of this adds up to a lot of internal stress in the wood.  It is why you see cross sections of tree trunks with large gaps like pieces of pie that have been removed.  The wood is shrinking rapidly and the stress is too much. It is also why you see splits at the edges of drying lumber.  These cracks occur as a result of the differences in the shrinkage rates between wood at the ends where evaporation is occurring at a higher rate than further towards the middle of the board where the evaporation and shrinkage is slower. All wood must be dried to achieve any dimensional stability.  The wood may be kiln dried or air dried.  Air drying takes a lot of time,  as a rule of thumb allow 1 year per inch of thickness.
The key issue for your project, other than the fact that the whole thing will shrink is that each board will shrink at different rates depending upon grain direction across the boards.  Since the project is small it is possible that the wood and glue (screws?) can hold up to the stress if the boards are all oriented exactly the same and have small areas of contact, but it is likely that the wood will split near where the boards are attached.  As to mixing the green and dried wood, the dried wood will not shrink anywhere near as much as the green wood and you are almost guaranteed to have problems.

