Q:

Problems with linseed oil paint

I have been trying to make my own linseed oil paint by adding pigments to boiled linseed oil.  I have added around 500 g of titanium oxide per litre of BLO and around 125 g of zinc oxide (to help speed the drying).  The paint mixes well and seems to go on ok but even after leaving to dry for a week or so, the colour can be rubbed of with a cloth (as in you can see white come off on a dark coloured cloth).
I tried to dilute the white I made with more oil and tried adding more zinc oxide (in two separate batches) but the problem still persists.
Any clues would be very welcome!
Thank you.

A:

I know it's been awhile, but these questions and answers are visited for years.
I have been using boiled linseed oil and various pigments for painting houses and sheds for about 10 years. It does dry slow, it can still have thicker areas like drips which take months to dry solid. Most of it is dry in three days and in good conditions with fresh made paint in a day its dry to the touch. I have the best luck with red, but white and tan colors have worked ok. If you want faster drying you can add Japan dryer. Someone above mentioned manganese and that's whats in most of the Japan dryers as far as I know. It doesn't take much. I do that if I need one day drying where I need to work on the area immediately.
I dont recommend high levels of zinc oxide. About 10-15% is the upper limit in my opinon. The good aspects of zinc oxide is the mildew prevention. I add 10% for that purpose even to any of the colors. The bad is the brittle nature of the paint, which for house paint is not an advantage. An alternative filler for white is calcium carbonate. Opaque and dense and cheap it can cut down on the cost of the titanium. I use it in most of my paint mixes along with clays in the colored paints.
One advantage you will find is that the standard boiled linseed oil off the shelf it doesnt have a lot of dryer, but this allows the oil to penetrate the wood and the cracks in old paint. This means those of us with old houses which have cracking and peeling paint have a better durability over time as it tends to seal the old paint longer than fast drying commercial paints. I have also been able to use it over latex which was painted on old oil paint, with pretty good results. I do not recommend this as a general practice, but it saved us from significant paint removal work. The possible disadvantage of home mixed paint is that the colors tend to weather unevenly, especially on single coat cover after several years, which I do not mind but may bother some folks.
If you use a higher grade of filtered linseed oil, there will be less mildew, but I have pretty good luck with the 10% Zinc Oxide and the cheaper oil.

