Q:

Downside to Mortising Jigs against Festool DOMINO?

There are a number of Chinese mortising jigs on the market which work by mounting a trim router,

GANWEI 2-In-1 Slotting Wood Trimming Machine Holder - Banggood Tool Sets

Tianli Mortising Jig

Given this model of mortising jig, is there any disadvantage to this over a Festool DOMINO? I don't see any professional woodworking channels using non-DOMINO mortising jigs, but it's not clear why? Other than the cost saving, is there any benefit of these jigs when compared to the Festool DOMINO? Are there any disadvantages?

A:

Other than the cost saving, is there any benefit of these jigs when compared to the Festool DOMINO? Are there any disadvantages?

There are lots of differences. One is a power tool that's part of an integrated system and which includes motor, cutter, a fence that's adjustable to different angles, tools, and a well-designed container to hold everything. The other is a jig.
One is a Festool product, so you can expect to pay a premium price for a tool that works extremely well and plays nicely with other Festool products, notably their line of excellent dust extractors, and you can expect a high level of support if you ever have a problem. The other is sold on Ebay.
I don't own a Domino or either of the jigs you linked to, so I can't say first-hand how the mortises they produce compare. My expectation is that the Festool will work very well, and the quality you get from the jigs will depend in large part on the router and bit that you use with them. One obvious difference in operation is that the Domino continually moves the bit back and forth as you make the cut; the jigs require the user to move the tool. It's hard to tell whether the resulting mortises will vary significantly, but using the Domino looks to be a bit quicker and more convenient.
Price is obviously a huge advantage for the jigs. At around $195, they cost about %20 of what the cheapest Domino system does. Although you still have to supply the router and bit, many woodworkers may already have those on hand. At that price, many hobbyists will be happy to sacrifice a bit of convenience.

