Q:

Are pocket-hole screws stronger than 90° screw joints for building these garage shelves?

I am a novice when it comes to working with wood, however I would like to learn more. Please accept my apologies in advance for asking technical questions for such a basic project..... as this is not about the 'art' of woodworking, as much as my understanding of basic principles to follow.
My first project is to build some simple shelving units for my garage using 2x4 softwood construction (not pretty, but meets my utility needs and helps keep the cost low). Plans for 'cheap & easy' garage shelving are readily found all over YouTube and after reviewing too many to count, there seem to be some basic consistencies, such as adding perpendicular bracing underneath the shelf platform (spanning from the front rail of the shelf to the rear rail). I 'assume' these braces are intended to allow for a greater span between the shelving legs, helping to support the intended load and prevent sagging in the middle.
My question relates to this bracing: Some folks merely drive long screws at a 90° angle to construct the shelving, essentially creating a rectangular box for which the shelving material (I am using 7/16th MDF) is placed upon. The perpendicular bracing is then added under the shelf.
"Some" folks out there in YouTube land suggest using pocket-hole screws to join these braces to the shelf rails, instead of relying on the strength of a screw driven into the side of the shelving at 90°. Their argument is that the pocket-hole screws are "stronger" and will help carry the downward load placed upon the shelf.
Q1: Are pocket joints stronger for this application?
Q2: If so, what locations would it make the most sense to use these pocket joints instead of simply driving the screws straight through the rails and into the braces?

Once again, I realize this is a very basic 2x4 project, and I hold woodworkers in high esteem do to the combination of artistic talent and engineering required. I am hoping, if I start my journey into woodworking by understanding some basic principles, this will hopefully help tackle more challenging projects in the future.

A:

Pocket screws are great when there is no other access (or you don't want the screw heads showing) and gluing with dowels is not an option. But their strength depends a lot on various factors including how you drilled the hold and the screwhead maybe pulling through the pocket.
But this is a first project for a garage, aesthetics don't matter all. So there is no need for pocket joints here.
If you want strength for the shelves, the best thing is to have them rest on something.
The easiest way to do this with a 2x4 construction is creating some stub 2x4 along side the rails and creating pockets for the shelf to rest in. That way the screws into the shelves are there only to hold the shape and the strength of the shelves comes from wood resting on wood. And you have plenty of room attach the supporting bits to the uprights.
If at the end you find that there is some play in the joints then add diagonal bracing to stiffen it up.

A:

The strength of the screw is in it's shearing strength, generally speaking for construction like this neither is inherently stronger.
If you were worried the strength isn't enough put in another screw!  Or alternately, use Nails, nails generally have a much higher shearing capacity than any similarly sized screw.

