Q:

Stair treads do not look smooth after sanding and finishing

I recently bought a house and decided to remove the carpet from the stairs and install hardwood instead. To save money, I decided to buy unfinished stair treads and risers and to finish them myself. This is my first time with woodworking, so please bear with me here.
After researching on the web, I bought sanding paper, oil-based stains and polyurethane, and started working.
My first and perhaps only problem is that despite sanding for a long time with an ROS, the wood just does not seem smooth. The density of the wood seems unequal and I can see small gaps along the grain in some areas. Those areas are smooth to the touch when I run my hand along the grain, but not across the grain. See below:

Giving up on sanding, I decided to apply stain on the surface. The areas with gaps absorb more stain, and it actually creates a good-looking color effect. However, we can clearly see that the darker areas are "rougher":

Applying 2 coats of oil-based poly over this does not really fix the problem. It looks like light reflects differently on the darker areas and it doesn't look very good when placed under the light.
Is all of this normal? Is it because of bad wood quality? Did I just not sand enough? 
Thanks for your help.
Note: the wood used is a smaller piece just for testing purposes prior to finishing the actual stair treads.

A:

The density of the wood seems unequal and I can see small gaps along the grain in some areas.

The wood in your pictures appears to be oak and the texture in the grain is common in that wood. I assume that you began with a course sandpaper 80-100 grit +/- to remove an major dents or impressions in the wood and proceeded to finer grits such as 150 an finally 220. The root cause of the tiny gaps in the wood is due to the cellular structure of the wood.  Annual growth of the tree adds less dense fiber in the spring and denser material later in the year.  That is why the stain is expressed lighter and darker across the board.  More stain is absorbed into the cellular structure in the less dense areas with much less absorption where the grain is tighter.  This is common in oak and the variation in darkness with the stain is one of its appealing features.  If you apply several coats of finish the varnish/poly will bridge the gaps and provide  good finish appearance.  If you take a close look at other installations you will probably find similar conditions.  I suggest you finish a test piece first to satisfy yourself that the overall result is acceptable.

