Q:

What are the common cut patterns used to mill a log into boards?

I have seen some question/answers here refer to using quarter-sawn wood. I didn't know what that was.
What are the other common ways to mill logs into lumber. This question is not about the cuts of lumber that result from this process but process itself. For more information about the resulting lumber and its application you can look here: What are the different uses for plain sawn (flat sawn), rift sawn, and quarter sawn boards?

A:

In its basic form quarter sawing is a method of processing logs into lumber. It is one of 3 common methods: quarter, plain/flat, and rift sawing.

Image from Flickr. Note that there are many other cuts that exist but still fit in same general categories
Plain
Also known as bastard sawn, through and through, and tangent sawn. It the most common way to mill lumber and arguably the cheapest. The log orientation is not typically moved during this process. The widest boards are made in this way since you cut across the entire diameter.
Rift
Rift or radially sawing produces the most consistent strength across all boards since each board is cut perpendicular to the grain. Commercially, it is not common as there is a lot of waste wood. Custom woodworkers milling their own logs may use this when making furniture, for example. Visually all the boards look very similar giving projects the same look and feel.
Quarter
Quartersawn (quarter-sawn) or quartered sawn is with the rings 90 degrees to the face. The quartered sections are individually cut with not attempts to waste wood. The block can be rotated repeatedly so the saw will remove the wider portions of the quarter.
More Reading

Advantage Lumber
Quarter Sawing. Covers other cuts briefly.
Canadian Woodworking

Important
It's important to understand that, while named the same, the milling processes and resulting boards are two different things. It would be easier to say that each of the milling processes can yield boards of different types. There is confusion that stems from this. Quarter sawn has changed meaning over time:

For more reading look at What are the different uses for plain sawn (flat sawn), rift sawn, and quarter sawn boards? for more explantion of the different milled boards and how to identify them.

A:

OK just read the whole question and looked at Matt's answer.
We have two questions really that were asked.  

When cutting a log what are the different cuts?

Matt's answer does a great job of displaying the different types of milling a log, Plain sawn is the cheapest and easiest way to cut a log and has the least waste.  
Quarter sawn is more work intensive, you have to cut the log into quarters and then cut one face of then the other alternating back and forth for each quarter.
Riftsawn this is the most work intensive and has the most waste from the log.  Each board is a true 'Quarter sawn' board.  the growth rings are all exactly 90 degrees to the face.  This probably came about from the practice of riving oak logs to get boards.

And what is Quarter-sawn wood.

Flat sawn wood has the grain mostly flat/parallel to the face of the board.  Looking at the growth rings at the end of the board you will see they reach most of the way across from narrow side to narrow side, 'flat' across the face.  Generally (0 - 30 degrees)
Quarter sawn lumber has the rings perpendicular to the face and generally is defined at 60-90 degrees,
Apparently Rift sawn lumber is the middle stuff (30-60 degree) lumber

This is confusing and strange but everything I look up appears to agree, which is strange, a board considered 'rift' would never come out of a rift cut log.  Rift cut lumber can come out of Quarter sawn and plane/flat sawn logs.  

