Q:

The epoxy hardens extremely slowly - what's the cause?

I'm not sure if this is the right section to ask this question, but I assume at least some of you woodworkers have experience with epoxy (Barrikade EP-TP).
I'm having a problem with 2 gallons of epoxy that I bought for a boat building project. I made a test batch and the epoxy is hardening extremely slow. The specifications say the pot time is 22 minutes, but even after 2 hours the batch is still liquid, as if I just mixed it. It takes ~4 hours for it to start turning to gel. After 24 hours it is like soft rubber. After 48 hours it's like hard rubber, but still not hard enough for sanding. 
Things I checked and tried:

The ratio is dead on. Specification calls for 100:44, and I'm mixing
16 gram batches with scales accurate down to 0.01 gram.
The ambient temperature is controlled 23 degrees. Specification
calls for 20 degrees for nominal cure, so if anything, the epoxy
should cure faster, not slower.
I suspected that the components have settled too much in their
buckets, so I mixed them before using. Didn't help.
Epoxy was bought 4 months ago, so it's definitely not expired.
Epoxy was always stored indoors, in nominal conditions (never frozen
or anything). No contamination either.

I called the seller, suspecting that maybe he shipped the wrong hardener, but he swore on his mother that everything is correct and the batches are labeled in the factory. He tried to persuade me that what I'm seeing is normal, and refused to send another batch (even if he did want to I would have to wait ~2 months for it, and there is no other epoxy supplier in my country.)
I have a bit of experience with epoxy, yet I've never seen anything like this. What could be the problem? Can somebody please advise?

A:

I've just checked the website for this epoxy. The pot life is not the same as the curing time.
It states:

Potlife: 30 minutes at 23 ° C
Curing time:  Initial curing 10-12 hours at 23°C. Full cure after 7 days.

So there is nothing wrong here!

A:

You will need to experiment. Try ten small batches with increasing amounts of hardener. Check results and repeat based on previous results and go from there. I would look for another product while doing this, though.

