Q:

Fixing a wood stain issue

So I have this unfortunate line from my stain in some of the vertical boards. It's front and center, so I want to fix it. My only guess is that this is from when I was sanding the joint where those boards meet the top horizontal bar. Must not have hit it well enough with 120 after in the direction of the grain. 
Is my best option to sand, maybe 120 grit, and re-stain just those vertical boards? I would imagine I need to wait until the stain is 100% dry.

Update:
First pass at fixing came out well. Need another coat to darken, but I'm fairly pleased. The very edges of the vertical boards have some extra darkness, but I actually kind of like it. Kind of looks worn old or something. Managed to sand a tiny bit of the horizontal boards despite my scrap wood protecting the edges. Sanded those with the grain just slightly and added a little stain there. Seems to have mostly covered it.

A:

There are a couple paths that may work. First, this is tough problem so there isn't perfect answer. 
First thing to try, is simply reapplying the stain to area that doesn't match. The surface will still have marks from sanding across the grain but the difference may not catch the eye as much.
If that doesn't work, then:
Second, scrape (or sand) in the area where the mismatch is and reapply the stain. The problem here may be seam or border between the freshly stained area and the older stain.
Third (nuclear option): Once done with option two (scrape and stain the small area), remove the finish from the whole piece with finish remover/paint stripper and stain again. The process of removing all the finish will blur the line between the old and new areas and the fresh (third-pass) stain will look continuous and even.
Other options: A slightly more opaque mixture of stain and pigment will hide the marks, but you must feel comfortable with mixing stain and colors. 
An easy dodge on this count is to merely add in some raw umber or lamp black to darken the stain, but your mileage may vary. 
Thin coat of a darker stain over area in question and a bit further down the vertical board can also be very effective. The danger is adding too much and having strange dark blobs. Perfect is the enemy of the good with this approach.
If the variation is slight, adding pigment to wax (applied over the stain) will also work but obviously this is a less permanent solution.  
Part of the issue at hand is from the marks that the sand paper left. So the more work you put into making the marks on the vertical boards uniform the easier matching the finish will be. Looks nice; good luck

