Q:

How can I join two boards at the ends?

I want to join two boards end-to-end, effectively making a longer board. Thus, the glue will be on the end grain of both pieces (highlighted blue.)

(Source: self)
I know that an end-grain butt joint is among the weakest joints, so how can I make this stronger? I could lose some of the length on some pieces, but on others I need the full length.

A:

There is also a bit for routers that can make what is called a finger joint.  It makes many narrow interlocking 'fingers' to increase the gluing surface area.  This was designed for joining boards end to end.

A:

Dowels and biscuits are length-preserving, cheap and common ways of generating some long-grain glueing surface. They're not quite as strong as other solutions, but usually entirely sufficient.
For dowels, you only need a drill and transfer plugs (or a dowel jig, which is more expensive). If you don't even have transfer plugs, you can improvise them with a dowel and a nail, or even with a dowel and a felt marker (no joke, done that before...). For biscuits, there is a special kind of tool, the "biscuit joiner", which makes sawing the slits in an automated process (not exactly the Mount Everest of traditional craftmanship, but it works very well).
Tongue and groove is very slightly more work than the above. If you have appropriate tools (a router will for example do, but manual tools are perfectly fine), it's a matter of minutes. I'm using a plow plane for that since taking the router out of the box and assembling/adjusting everything takes about as long as it will take me doing the tongue and groove with the plow plane, and I don't need hearing protection, nor is there a lot of fine dust. Hand saw and chisel certainly works, too, for the patient and dedicated traditional craftsman.
The tongue can also be loose (a separate piece of wood) which is basically like a single large biscuit going all the way through. The advantage of a loose tongue is that you do not lose length. Mind that the external appearance is different, you'll see end-grain at the tongue, which can be undesirable but can also be very desirable (indeed sometimes people deliberately use a completely different wood for contrast, it can look pretty cool).
Then of course there are about two dozen variations of joinery that you could use, all of which do lose some length, however.
What to use is hard to answer, as it depends on how much work you want to put into this, how stable it has to be, in which direction the expected force will act, and what "look" you want.
A simple lap joint, for example, is perfectly fine if you do not have any "special needs" on stability. It can be made easily and quickly with no tools but saw and chisel, or with a rabbet plane (or, of course, if you have a router, with the router).

A:

You can use a long lap joint here, but one of the standard ways to join two boards like this when cutting by hand is to form what's called a scarf joint. This is approved by the Federal Aviation Administration so if it is strong enough for airplanes it probably will suffice for your use as well. The key for FAA approval is 12x to 15x angle measured as length/thickness as shown in the following diagram as (8x):

(source: palaeos.com)
(note the detail of the length of the cut face). This cuts off the end grain and creates two long-grain faces that then glue up much more strongly. However, you may not end up with a piece of wood as strong as a complete board unless you use further reinforcement.
There are other forms of scarf joint, some with interlocking features that look like what we now associate with Japanese joinery, and while they create joins that are much stronger in many cases they are far more challenging to cut accurately. See more in the Scarf Joint section of William Fairham's classic book, Woodwork Joints which you can find on Project Gutenberg.

