Q:

How to finish a piece to bring out its colour

I have some pallet wood that I think is Kempas. Before I started to clean, cut and sand it the wood had a nice orange brown colour. After cleaning and sanding much of that colour was gone.  
I want to finish the wood to bring some of that colour back. A collegue had mentioned using oil but for this particular use I am making some blocks that will hold up paper like small calendars and other paper (For indoor use so the sun should not be a major factor). Oil would seep into the paper. 
What can I do with this wood to bring out its colour and finish it so that the colour is "sealed". 
While answers about stains are valid I was hoping for something that I could without chemicals and fumes.

A:

Some woods like cherry are very pale when freshly surfaced but will darken with time.  Here is a photo I took of an experiment I did a couple years ago.  I planed this (oddly shaped) piece, put a drink coaster on it and left it outside in the full sun for about four hours.  As you can see, simply exposing the fresh cherry to sunlight for one afternoon darkened it dramatically.  Since that time, the piece has aged to an even darker color.  Perhaps your wood is a species that does this as well.  You could put one of your pale pieces out in the sun for a day and see what happens.  If you do, I'd put something opaque on it like a coaster or coffee mug so that you can see the difference.
As far as oil finishes go, as long as the oil finish has cured, it should be fine.  I only have direct experience with Watco Danish Oil and it is not a pure oil.  I think it is a thinned boiled linseed oil with perhaps a bit of varnish in it. To me this is a good thing since it will fully cure in 24 hours.
Any finish will darken the wood at least a bit and thus enhance the color.  I have no data to back this up but it seems to me that Watco Danish Oil enhances the natural color better than shellac or polyurethane varnish.  Even wax will enhance the color as noted in another post.

A:

Good question. Several others have offered good suggestions. Let me add a couple more. I've never worked with this particular wood, but here's been my experience with others. 

Tung oil (100% pure tung oil, not tung oil finish) tends to make the grain pop. It also adds a nice warmth to wood. I've also experimented with boiled linseed oil, but didn't like the results (at least on walnut and birch). 
Letting the wood bake in the sun (as mentioned by glw). I've had LOTS of success with poplar in sun baking. After spending an afternoon in the Oklahoma sun, all the greens turn deep brown and all the light areas turn a warm orange. 
Oil-based varnish. Like tung oil, this tends to make the grain pop and warm it up. I do not recommend a water-based finish for that--it tends to retain the wood's original color (which, in some instances, may be exactly what you do want....e.g., I almost always finish maple with a water-based finished because I like its natural color.

With that said, here's some examples of things I've had success with. 
Sun-baked poplar desk, tung oil finish, topped with oil-based varnish (polyurethane):

Walnut box with tung oil only:

Walnut baby bed with tung oil + polyurethane:

Birch countertops with tung oil + polyurethane:

A jewelry box made of walnut (tung oil + lacquer) and maple (sans tung oil + lacquer)

I hope that helps!

A:

I use Carnuba Wax for a most of my turning projects, and it will work just as well for a project like this.  Carnuba Wax is the hardest natural wax out there and it also happens to be food safe and hypo-allergenic. It will give you a similar pop in color as an oil finish but once it dries you can buff it and it won't leave an oily residue on your paper.

