Q:

How are these toolmarks happening, and how to prevent / get rid of them?

I'm noticing that when I turn really hard woods, even with brand-new and very sharp carbide bits, sometimes I'll see these long scratches on the surface.

Often they'll only become apparent once I've started sanding, and no amount of sanding seems to be able to mitigate or remove them. Do I really need to re-surface the bowl with a chisel?
I pretty exclusively use Easy Wood Tools (carbide-tipped) since I don't have the space for a sharpening system. Generally, I use the circular bit (which they call the finisher) for roughing, then try to get a fine surface finish with a square or radiused-square bit.
I'm attaching some pictures that show the scratches I'm talking about.
Since my tools are very sharp, and I'm seeing the scratches no matter what speed I set my lathe at, I'm wondering if they're happening because the speed at which I move the tool along the wood is slightly inconsistent - could this be the case? (I find it really hard to move the tool at a super-consistent speed, as it seems like there are "slippery" and "sticky" parts on the surface of my toolrest).
Any tips or tricks would be much appreciated - I note, this doesn't seem to happen nearly as much on softer woods like walnut.

A:

As some people already pointed out, the carbide tool is not as sharp as a HSS bowl gouge can be. The scratches on the outside can only prevent by a shearing cut with a very sharp tool because the grain needs to be cut in almost 90 degrees. Sanding will not help much, depending how deep the chunking is...
The scratches on the inner part look more like sanding scratches which appear when you do not move the sanding paper quickly enough on the rotating bowl or the bowl turns to fast while sanding. In general, the sanding paper should never hold still at any point!
I mostly start with 80 grid paper to get rid of most tool marks and correcting some minor curves or whatever... Only if I am happy with the surface after this process, I proceed with smaller grids and go through them very quickly.
Also it helps to sand in fibre direction by hand which eliminates all the marks you show in the second picture...

