Q:

Steam Bending American Walnut

I asked this on the Home Improvement and it was suggested I ask here too.
We have a bay window which has an actual curve to it rather than the half octogan that some have.
We have skirting boarded the rest of the room in American Walnut and trying to determine how to bend it into a curve. The walnut has been pre-oiled.
I am not comfortable in kerf cuts as this is the only piece of remaining walnut that covers the span. If I ruin this piece then I will have to probably go with two pieces in the bay as it took several weeks to get this wood and carpet fitting is rapidly approaching.
Currently I have it suspended between two stacks of books which I am slowly loading with tubs of water to bend it.
I was thinking of raising it further off the floor, draping towels over the edges and putting a food steamer underneath and running it to aid/speed up the bending.
Will this aid me or is it likely to ruin the wood?
Wood dimensions are: The thickest edge is 20mm and the thinnest is 5mm. The span is 2.5m and height is 150mm. The website I bought this from is https://www.britishhardwoods.co.uk/lambs-tongue-black-walnut-skirting-board.html

A:

I don’t have a ton of experience steam bending, so take this for what it’s worth.
Any bending of wood that’s already been dried (kiln is worse than air) is going to be harder to bend. The oil finish isn’t going to help.
If actual bending has any hope, I think you actually need to build a steam box. Overcurve the form a bit to allow for springback.
A couple of alternatives come to mind. Kerfing and curving might work, but if your skirting has a profile (sounds like it does), that might be rough. Cutting the profiled section off the flat section might be workable (since the thinner profile section might be convinced to curve without much kerfing).
You might also consider a kerfed board that’s veneered with a thin layer of the flat section of your skirting. You probably need a bandsaw to harvest that veneer (and separate the profiled section). Or just buy walnut veneer, though that’ll be really thin.

