Q:

Beach chair reclining arm mechanism

I'm attempting to build a set of reclining beach chairs for my in-laws, but I can't identify the mechanism that's used on the arms to recline the back. Google searching hasn't been very helpful (all I can find are the chairs themselves, no parts).
Looking at the mechanism, it seems like I could fabricate one at home, but it would be pretty tedious. Does anyone know what this thing is called? Or better yet, where I can find them?

A:

I have come to the conclusion that the hardware you are looking for is not proprietary but not easily accessible to the general public as of yet. Even if it is it is definitely not widely marketed as someone would have found it by now. My wife told me I have been looking at too many beach chairs so I have at least some credibility when it comes to this hardware availability. 
Those pictures appear to be your own as looking them up got me pictures of gun stocks and boats and rigging. So... not helpful there. 
So, a lot of Googling
In an attempt to find them I have been using the combinations of the following words:  

sliding, arm, chair, beach, lounger, hardware, brass, steel, rivet, positional, 4, four, tray (for a little bit when I though I found something similar), oak, track, channel, lock, locking, hinge. adjustable, folding, bagel

These just brought me round and round. Every corner I thought I was getting close but I was mostly going in different circles. Reverse imaging helped but again the end result was the same. 
Suppliers
The start of forward momentum comes that this chair is apparently available through many manufacturers. Likely they are from the same template or root supplier but either way they are out there. These are the ones I found that appear unique enough. There were more but some appeared to be cookie cuttered from others. I chose the "main" ones from these groups based on how often I ran into them. In no particular order:

30agear.com
sunrisechairco.com - This was one of the more informative ones as it claims to have sourced the parts in the US. Also it refers to the hardware in question as "rust proof brass hinges and rivets".
Wayfair.ca - These are called Frankford Beach Chairs according to Walmart, Amazon and Wayfair.ca

They are all the same picture and therefore the same base product. I am sure there are minor changes between them but I can show you one and you won't be able to link it to one of those suppliers I am sure. 
Other pictures of the hardware
If this help you or other I have found several different angles of the hardware in question. I am confident they are all the same mechanism. Some are of a different make up but the design is the same. Namely I have found some that are brass or steel by description:
All of the images have been shrunk as to not take up too much space. Should blow up fine when you click on them. I know I have another one but I need to scour my temp for it. 
 Image from sunrisechairco.com
 Image from sunrisechairco.com
Other options to consider
If you are willing to break the one you have I would be curious if there were manufacture marks are the hidden sides of the hinge. The thing comes apart in at least 3 pieces. 
If you are willing to contact manufacturers it is possible that one of them could get you the information your are looking for. 

