Q:

Enlarging a Hole made by a Hole Saw

I drilled several holes in my desk to put some grommets using a 7/8" hole saw bit.  Unfortunately, I realized afterwards that the hole was supposed to be 1" to fit my grommets.
Then, despite knowing better, I used my 1" hole saw bit in an attempt to make the holes the correct size.  Although I was able to make the hole larger, the new hole did not come out clean at all.
The obvious solution to this would be to clamp a piece of plywood behind the hole to use as a pilot.  However, the position of the holes make this solution pretty unfeasible - they are in the back of the shelf of a large hutch - i would need to get a very long piece of wood with some huge clamps in order to make that solution work (unless I am missing something):

What is the best way of fixing this?  I could get the next larger size of grommet (1.5") and make the hole larger, but which bit would be the best for this task?  I have never used a Forstner bit - but it looks like it might be promising.  Thoughts?

A:

Lee Valley (I'm sure you can get it elsewhere) sells a product called an Oops Arbor that allows you to mount two hole saws to a single arbor.  The smaller one is held further out from the larger one allowing it to support itself as it drills.

A:

If you are unable to move the piece or provide additional access (as you describe), then another approach might be to cut a wood plug the same diameter as the current hole and glue it in place in the hole.  Once it is set up you can begin drilling again using the larger bit.

A:

If you and can disassemble the piece and have a router with a rabbet bit, you can enlarge the hole by going around with depth set less than the full thickness of the material and the bearing against the edge of the hole.
Then flip the piece over, attach a bottom-bearing flush-trim bit, and set the depth so it bears against the edge of the rabbet you just cut.
You can calculate the width of the cut by subtracting the diameter of the bearing from the diameter of the rabbeting bit and dividing by two.  E.g. if your rabbet bit is 3/4" diameter has a guide bearing of 1/2", it would give you the extra 1/8" you need, as would any combination of bit/bearing where the difference in diameters = 1/4".

