Q:

How can I determine when a linseed oil finish has cured?

I have only recently begun experimenting with linseed oil and walnut oil finishes, after mainly using mineral oil. Today I read this question and realized that my process may be flawed, because I am not pausing at all between applying linseed oil and then finishing with a carnauba wax topcoat.  
I found this reference about drying oils in the above-mentioned question, but there's no real indication of how to tell by touch/sight when the curing process has completed.  
Right now, my process is:
* Scrape or sand the bowl to a medium grit, usually 220
* Wipe gently with mineral spirits to remove dust in the grain and raise the remaining grain for finer grits of sandpaper
* Wait 1-5 minutes for excess mineral spirits to dissipate/evaporate (sometimes I try to hasten this using puffs from my mini air compressor)
* Sand up to my finishing grain, usually 600 grit and then 0000 steel wool
* Wipe with linseed oil until surface is covered; use a fresh rag to remove excess
* (note, no pause between previous step and this) Apply carnauba wax and buff into surface  
...my question is, am I making a mistake here by not waiting for the linseed oil to cure before sealing it in with carnauba wax? If so, how long should I wait / how will I tell when it's OK to proceed to the final wax step?  
Thanks for any help/advice you can provide!

A:

am I making a mistake here by not waiting for the linseed oil to cure before sealing it in with carnauba wax?

I don't think so, no. 
A seemingly logical worry here is that the carnauba will seal the surface and prevent the BLO underneath from curing, but that's not a valid concern because a wax finish doesn't seal a surface off at all. It's far too thin for that, so it's highly porous to oxygen, just as it is to liquid water and water vapour1.

how long should I wait / how will I tell when it's OK to proceed to the final wax step? 

There's some personal interpretation/gut feeling in this for most people doing finishing. As mentioned in previous Answers and in my Comment above, in actual fact virtually nobody waits for their BLO application to cure before they proceed to the next step. Even if they say something like "I leave it overnight to dry" obviously 8-12 hours isn't nearly long enough for a coat of BLO to fully cure, but it 'dries' enough that they can proceed to the next step. 
And that really is the key thing after you apply BLO2, has it cured enough for the next step to work right?
Back in 2014 or 2015 after reading about a quick one-day finish that started with oil and went on to shellac very quickly I started experimenting with applying shellac soon after oiling and I've done this regularly since, eventually reducing the wait to nothing. I've concurrently done other pieces where I left the oil overnight to 'dry', deliberately for comparison purposes. And there's no difference that I can determine in how the pieces finish or age subsequent to that3. 
I fully expect wax on top of oiled wood to work just as succesfully, and for there to be no noticeable difference between waiting zero minutes, five minutes or overnight before waxing.

1 This is equally true for both lacquers and varnishes at this coat thickness BTW.
2 Including when you're doing a straight oil finish with nothing else added or put on top.
3 I subsequently learned from old finishing guides that oiling just prior to shellac being applied is nothing new and has been done for nearly as long as shellac has been used in wood finishing.

