Q:

How to find or create board for about 40x28 table to use as a keyboard tray

I'm working on one of my first DIY projects that's a combination of some 3d printed parts along with one main wood piece. The goal that I'm trying to achieve is a static keyboard tray that hangs under my main table. I think I have a somewhat sturdy custom clamp that attaches to my table, and it will allow the tray to hopefully be anchored to a fixed flat piece with some 6-32 screws (image below).

The issue that I'm running into now is the wood board, as I need to find a board that can be cut in the following way:

As a complete newbie to this kind of thing, I was hoping to get some information regarding where I could find such a wood board or the most similar form factor (about 35'x28'x0.5'), along with ways of forming it into the shape needed. I think I might definitely need to use a drill for the holes, but what tool could I use for the center cuts? I would prefer not using power tools just because I don't trust myself with them yet, haha. Any help is appreciated! thanks :]

A:

I think plywood will be ok for this. The price may be high currently because of wood shortage! Also I think you'd need to purchase from a supplier who will cut a piece to your size.
Tools:

Drill + bits.
Hand saw.

Any hand saw will do just fine
Here's one example:

Example saw courtesy of Harbor Freight.

1 pack of sandpaper + scrap block.

Process:

Mark for holes then drill.

Draw cutouts. Drill row of holes very close together to shape of rounded end, then saw from the edge until you touch the holes and can remove the waste piece. Perfect ASCII image for you to follow  :)

_ _      _ _ 
   |    |  
   |    |
   |    |
   oooooo

Smooth rough end with sandpaper wrapped around beer bottle or other cylindrical shape. Start @ 80, then finish with 120.

Sand edges smooth, sandpaper wrapped around scrap piece. If rough start @ 80, if smooth start @ 120. Finish @ 180. Slightly round corners to prevent chipping.

Sand surface in direction of grain, only with 180 or 250.

