Q:

How to secure bench top equipment to a mobile surface

I wrote the title generically, but the specific case I have is a bench top porter cable band saw.
I was a bit disappointed with how flimsy and unlevel the base was, but I figure they expect you to secure it to a bench. I don't want to permanently secure it to anything though because I want to be able to move it around as necessary. I don't need it to be very "portable" per say (i.e. I'm not loading it up and taking it to work sites), but I just need to be able to scoot it a bit one way or another as necessary in my garage.
I also realize I could use a rolling cart, as I do for my table saw, but I have a place I want this to be on a table where I also have a miter saw and I just need to be able to move it back and forth a bit.
I tried screwing it down into two pieces of thick plywood, but the plywood just warped so that it rocks back and forth.
My next thought is that I have some tiles that look like stone (not sure what they're called? not important, but they are very flat and will likely crack before they warp). I could bore some holes in them and probably secure it to that. This would be a bit more trouble though as I'd need to do my research to make sure I am using the right kinds of bits and would need to figure out how to ensure I'm not leaving a bolt protruding under the bottom (or put some kind of rubber feet under them if I do). But...
I bet there's a better way to do this? I'm probably being overly verbose, so to simplify the goal is for my band saw not to wobble while remaining reasonably mobile (don't need to lift it much so much as just scoot it back and forth).

A:

I have 2 ideas.

I have my compound miter saw semi-permanently attached to a work bench I build on wheels.  but I do some times need to take it with me to other locations.  So I drilled holes though the top of the bench and tightened it down with wing-nut bolts, fairly easy to take it off and reapply it.  and if I'm lazy I just put the bolts through so it won't move but leave the wing nuts off.

attach it to a board just a little larger than the base of the saw.  I've done this with my Kreg Jig and then when I need it I use a clamp to secure it to a bench top.  Sounds like you might have tried this, and I don't understand why your ply wood would warp, especially if you had 2 layers.  unless they were really thin.  Or the base of your band saw was so bad that it pulled the boards enough to rock.  If this is the case you might want to level the bandsaw on the boards with shims before you bolt them together.  in either case using a clamp to secure the board to your bench top should help with the rocking as well, use 2 if the rocking is really bad.

A:

I have a small shop, so I cannot afford many dedicated work surfaces for the bench-top equipment I have acquired.
I have a re-purposed Ikea kitchen island that I used for a router table and for a scroll saw. both have feet with similar dimension holes through them. I sat both on this "bench" and marked out the holes in the feet.
Then I drilled out the holes and epoxied threaded inserts into the holes. This allows me to securely bolt the router table or saw down using four bolts. When neither the router or the saw are in use I have a small "wrist-height" bench that has a number of threaded through-holes in the top. I recommend through-holes so dust and chips don't fill up the holes as easily.
My lower profile work bench I built is made so that I can use dogs and hold-fasts to hold bench-top tooling down. So I have a choice of heights for using this stuff. I may install threaded inserts into this bench as well. At least for the scroll saw, which is used more at sitting height anyway.

