Q:

How to make a dimensionally stable panel using hardwood?

I need to create a panel that is about 24" square and about 1.5" thick and I want it to be dimensionally stable and not prone to splitting or warping. The material will probably be oak. What is the general pattern to approach the lay up?

A:

What is the general pattern to approach the lay up?

Slice your boards into thin veneers and glue the veneers up in a stack, with the grain of each layer at 90° to the layer below it. Put the stack in a press to cure under pressure. Trim the edges and cut to final size.
Now, you're probably not actually going to make your own plywood, but that's how you get dimensional stability. Solid wood panels expand and contract with changes in humidity, and there's not much you can do to stop it short of controlling the humidity. Allowing for seasonal movement is an important consideration whenever you're making something out of solid wood.
So, if you want a panel that looks like it's solid hardwood, make it out of plywood (or another stable substrate such as MDF), and then wrap the panel in thin pieces of hardwood. Be sure to use end grain pieces where the ends of the boards making the panel would be, edge grain on the other sides, and face grain for the pieces. If you do it carefully, you should be able to hide the joints pretty almost entirely.
Up to this point, I've understood your use of panel to mean a flat piece of wood with no moving parts, but maybe you just mean that you want a 24" square thing made of wood, and you're OK with letting some parts move. In that case, a traditional approach would be to use a frame and panel design, where a solid panel "floats" inside a frame that has enough room for the panel to move seasonally. Since the frame is made up of narrow parts, it's relatively stable.
Another method would be to not glue the boards making up the panel together, and to hold the panel together with e.g. breadboard ends. Usually, breadboard ends are pinned in the middle and the panel is allowed to expand and contract at the edges. However, if you use joinery like lap joints, tongue and groove, or spline joints, and if you don't glue them, and you leave enough space for seasonal movement, you could pin the breadboard ends at the ends so that the panel's width stays the same.

