Q:

How does the size of a hole in dimension lumber affect strength?

I've looked around the internet but cannot find a good explanation for this question.
Generally speaking, will a 1-1/2” hole in the dead center of a board (say, the biggest common hardware store found material: 2x12 Doug fir) weaken the structural integrity of the board regardless of the length, knots, etc.?
Or, put a different way: how big of a hole can one make in dimension lumber until the structure of that lumber is compromised?

A:

I'm confused between the 3/8" hole noted in your title and the 1 1/2" hole mentioned in your question body, but neither, when located in the center of the 12" dimension of a 2x12, will cause any significant weakening of the board.
In home construction, you're generally allowed (by code) to drill a hole up to 1/3 the width of the board before it's considered compromised and an engineering solution is required to strengthen it for the lost wood - for your 2x12 example, you could drill a 4" hole (actually 3.75" is the biggest you can go since a 2x12 is actually 1.5x11.25), centered on the width, without significant concern.
If, however, you're drilling through the 2" dimension (actually 1.5", as noted above), then you can drill a 1/2" hole and fulfill the requirement. I would be extremely cautious about this, however, as it can be difficult (without a drill press) to drill exactly down the middle of a 12" board without wandering. Also, I'm not entirely sure if the 1/3 rule applies to a vertical hole. I wanted to mention it, though, since you didn't indicate which direction you were drilling.
Bear in mind that when used on edge (12" tall), the dimensional lumber gets its strength from the top fibers being in compression and the bottom fibers being in tension. I'm not sure exactly what thinning it by 1/3 would do to those forces with a vertical hole. For that, you'd probably be better off asking at the Home Improvement sister site.
Finally, a 3/8" hole is only bad if you'd intended it to be 1/4". It's rather more difficult to fill and drill a new hole. If you needed a 1/2" hole, instead, it's much easier to enlarge the hole (though it still has difficulty and will take time/effort to ensure the new hole is precisely centered on the old hole).

