Q:

Joining two flat legs of stool

I am practicing dovetails and so I have made various stools of differing sizes consisting of three pieces of rectangular wood: one for the seat and two for the legs, being joined with dovetails.  
I want to put a joining piece between the two legs to prevent splaying under heavy load.
I can't find much information on what the proper joint for this would be.  I would rather not go all the way through the legs for something like a pull-through dovetail just because I haven't done it before and don't want to ruin the stool (which is for my dad).  
I was thinking of just a simple T-butt joint but I have been reading that it is very poor for a joint which needs to take any tension.  Does adding some small dado to the accepting end of the butt-joint help increase the tensile strength of the joint in any substantial way?
In terms of my tools... pretty sparse.  I have chisels, hammer, and a dovetail saw; along with copious amounts of sand paper :P
Since I have gotten this far without any metal I am also going to avoid any mechanical fasteners.
Edit:
I added a rough picture showing the current three parts and where I want to put the additional piece (green).  Thanks.

A:

Since your legs are less than an inch thick I am not confident that the dovetail joints will handle the lateral loads that the stool will experience, so the stretcher is a good idea.  To understand what type of joint is needed, consider the way the loads will be applied. Vertical loads from the person sitting on it will be easily carried by the legs and the leg/seat joints are fine.  As weight is added, the legs will want to splay in or out to the outside spread eagle or lean in parallel to one side or the other.  The shallow dado connection you have proposed will certainly prevent the legs splaying inward where the stretcher is compressed, however the joint is little more than a butt joint and will not  resist being pulled apart if the legs splay out or lean. One or both ends of the stretcher will be pulled out of the leg.  This pulling force is what must be resisted.
You can do so using a mortise/tenon joint which extends deeper into the leg thickness (say 5/8") or by a through tenon with a pin on the exterior.

Another alternative is to screw the stretcher to the leg from the outside using a countersunk screw.  You can plug the screw hole with a wood plug. A cutter bit for your drill is inexpensive and allows you to match your project wood.  When you align the grain, the plug will all but disappear.

