Q:

Resawing by hand - how to correct drift?

I'm trying resawing for the first time on a cherry board.
It's just as difficult as everyone has mentioned, but I am following the advice I've found online and only sawing where I can see the line I have drawn.
The only saw I have with rip-cut teeth is an inexpensive Irwin pull-saw, which often binds/flexes excessively during the push stroke. Now that I have gotten a fair bit into the piece, I use a small wooden wedge at the end to prevent binding. however, as soon as I got as far into the board as the saw is wide, I noticed that my leading cut is wandering away from the line I drew and scribed on the side. (See pic)
If this were earlier in the cut, I would change my wrist angle a little bit to try to guide the body of the saw back onto the line, but since the body of the saw is now entirely captured by the board, I don't know how to get the saw back on track.
How can I recover from this deviation and have this cut come out as good as possible at this point? (And what should I have done initially to prevent it wandering?)
Thanks!
AKA

A:

The basics in adjusting for drift are: identify it early, adjust quickly, and keep on monitoring closely.
Identify early
It's vitally important in any long cut (not only made with hand tools!) to spot early if you're drifting off your line.
Adjust quickly
This needs explaining. Because most guides have this tip most know you do this by flexing the blade slightly in the direction you want the saw to cut. But the mistake most inexperienced sawyers make — been there, have the T-shirt! — is to over adjust and then inevitably you end up doing this again and again, resulting in a wavy cut.
What you should do instead is flex the blade and then make just a few corrective strokes. If you're monitoring closely enough only two or three strokes can be enough. Thanks to Chris Schwarz I think for this tip.
Other common tips include:
Wax the blade well, and often
Rotate the workpiece more than once
Flip end for end at least once
And for your case:
Don't hold the board at this angle
This is an awkward angle to rip at, even with a Japanese saw where the dynamics can be a bit different. It's much better to have the workpiece upright (vertical) or at an angle (45° probably being ideal) and held in a vice or clamp arrangement that easily allows for release, repositioning and re-clamping, because you'll be doing this a lot! Seriously, resawing a board over about two feet you'll probably want to adjust position at least seven or eight times, maybe more.
And obviously:
Practice
This is obviously a duh but you say it's your first time trying resawing so don't be too hard on yourself, nobody should expect this to go perfectly the first few times.
I wouldn't even want to show a photo of my first resawing attempt (which was much less challenging than this) because the results were pretty dire! Like you I was using a saw not suited to the task, and didn't know all of the tips I suggest here. So the result was pretty horrible..... I got there in the end, but after planing the pieces were a lot thinner than I'd hoped! ^_^
Resawing is in fact so challenging that some experienced woodworkers either avoid doing it as much as possible, they don't do it at all or it was the final (or only!) reason they bought a bandsaw O_O
If you want to do this a lot...
By hand — you've probably already realised this but you could do with having a better saw. Nothing against Japanese-style saws, but topping the list of what I'd recommend would be a European frame saw, a la Tage Frid.
Not manually — invest in a bandsaw, and an aftermarket blade specifically tailored to this sort of cut. Even with a meh bandsaw a good blade can be transformational in how well it cuts (all cuts, but perhaps most any deep rips you want to make).
Wish I'd remembered this earlier, more on ripping in a previous Q&A, Why is resawing by hand so difficult compared to ripping/crosscutting?

