Q:

How do I accurately cut a board exactly in half?

This might be a silly question, but how do I accurately measure, mark and cut a board perfectly in half on a miter saw?
I know that if I want to cut a board of a specific length, I would mark that length, and then align the blade right on the other side of the line, so that the cut piece is exactly measured distance.  But say I have a 8' board, and I want it in half (roughly 4' each, minus the kerf), how do I quickly measure/cut this? Ideally the result would have no waste.
Do I just align the blade with the line and cut directly on it, or do I need to measure the blade kerf and account for this somehow?
I realize a table saw would help make this more accurate and repeatable, but right now I'm limited to a miter saw.

A:

Typically if you need two or more equal-length parts from a single board, you'll select a board longer than what you need to cut all the parts, cut the board as close to "in half" as you care to, then gang all the pieces together or set up a stop block to cut them to the final equal length. Sometimes you may not cut to final length until after you've performed some other operations.
You don't necessarily need to find out the exact length of a board to find the exact middle. Note that you can get close measurements by marking with a sharp pencil, but if you need exact measurements you should use a knife to mark your lines instead.

Take a tape measure and place the hook close to the edge of one face on the board.
Extend the tape measure all the way to the other end. If it does not fall on an exact measurement that's easy to divide by 2, slide the tape measure sideways (so it slants across the face of the board) until the scale does hit the end of the board at a measurement that's easy to divide by 2.
Divide the measurement by 2, find the resulting measurement on the scale, and mark it as the middle.
Measure the width of your blade's tooth and divide it by 2 (i.e., multiply the denominator of the fractional measurement by 2)
Measure the "half-kerf" distance to the left side of the first (center) mark. (If you measure to the right side, swap the words "left" and "right" in the following instructions.)
If your second mark was to the left of the first mark, draw an X to the right side of your second mark to designate the right side as the "offcut." (Conversely, if your second mark was to the right of the first mark draw an X to the left side of your second mark.)
Position the board on your saw so the left side of the nearest tooth exactly lines up with your second mark. (If you used a pencil instead of a knife to make the mark, try to account for the width of the pencil line.)
Clamp your workpiece in place, double-check everything is still lined up (and readjust if necessary), then make the cut.

A:

You've hit on both options.  
You measure the board to it's exact dimensions, (I have yet to see them exactly 8') then you mark the center.
At this point you can either attempt to cut the board centering the line with the miter or you measure the kerf, (usually 1/8") split that in half (1/16") make your line there and follow the new line for the miter.
My guess is it will be about 1/8" - 1/4" longer than 8' so the kerf will make it closer to 4' even.

A:

I don't want to be left out of this party, so here's my take. No matter how carefully you measure you're always going to have one half slightly larger than the other after the first cut. So you need to cut one slightly short and trim the other to match.
I think the biggest thing other answers are missing is the use of a stop block to guarantee a repeatable cut.
I would probably use a combination of bowlturner's and null's answers, since null's is a pretty good method of finding the center.

Use a tape measure (or any other rigid tool with a length
slightly more     than the length of the board and a known center).
I wouldn't use a string because it would stretch. Place one end of
the tape measure at the end of the board, use a friend to hold it if
you have to. Place the final marker at a point which is easily
divided and mark. As mentioned, it's practically impossible to
position for a single cut that will guarantee two boards of the
exact same length. instead we get close and make two cuts.
Your miter may or may not have a stop. If it does not, you can use a
board clamped to your miter table as the stop. Position the board so
that the blade is on the inside of the measured line(This
guarantees that the "unfinished" piece will be slightly longer than
the "finished" piece).
Secure your stop so that the next cut will be of the exact same
length. Make sure it's secure so that positioning the next cut will
not shift your stop.
Make your cut. You now have two pieces, the one that was against the
stop is now your "finished" piece. Set it aside and place the
unfinished piece against the stop. Cut off the sliver left on the
end and your two boards will be exactly the same length and only a
very small amount of board will have been lost, approximately 2x the
kerf.

Bear in mind that this applies to a board which is already squared on both ends
Another option, if you are guaranteed that your board is rectangular (parallel sides with right angles at every corner): you use another technique to find the center which would be more accurate with no measuring at all:

Use a straight edge along the top left corner diagonally to the
bottom right corner. Mark a line at approximately the center of the
board.
Move the straight edge so that it is now from the top right corner
to the bottom left corner and again mark a line at approximately the
center of the board.
The intersection of these points is the center of the rectangle. Use
a square to make a line through this intersection; this is your
center line.
Follow steps 2 through 4 from the first procedure to make your cut.

