Q:

Is PVC pipe safe to use for a dust collection system?

I'm in the early stages of designing a dust collection system for my home shop.  My existing system, a dustpan and broom, is vastly inefficient for my setup, which includes a tablesaw, router table, planer, and various small power tools. Long-term, my goal is to plumb my shop to run ductwork to each of my three main tools from a centralized dust collector - I haven't yet mapped out a design for this, but the tool area of my shop is around 20x15, and I'd need to run to all three tools.  
When doing my initial research to get a feel for the costs, I've run into a variety of recommendations for materials to use.  Some sites insist that PVC pipe is the best "affordable" option, while others strongly warn against using it due to static buildup.  Most of the other options I read about are more expensive, often by a significant amount, so I want to know if it's possible to save money by using PVC, or if the risks outweigh the convenience.  
Is PVC a safe material to use in a dust collection system, and are there any specific precautions I need to take in order to use it?

A:

PVC is commonly used in dust collection systems. Typically for longer runs you should use 6" or larger pipe, regardless of the material. If you're using PVC, the larger, less expensive pipe is commonly available as sewer drain pipe.
As of May 2015, there have been no known fires caused by a static discharge in a PVC pipe from a dust collection system.
Because PVC is an insulator, you are more likely to get a number of small static discharges than a single large static discharge.
Even if you want to ground your PVC anyway, simply running a ground wire through the PVC will not be very effective because--as I mentioned before--PVC is an insulator and charge does not travel across it very easily. Only the surfaces of the pipe in direct contact with the wire will be grounded, and any points not in direct contact will not be grounded. Grounding the outside is pointless because no charge will travel from the inside to the outside, or vice-versa. If you suspend the wire directly through the middle of the pipe, you still won't collect and ground much charge because air is also an excellent insulator. If you want to effectively ground the system, you need to entirely cover the inside of the pipe with a conductive coating, then ground the inside of the pipe to the components on either end of the pipe (dust collector and tool), as if you were running metal pipe. Suffice it to say, it's a lot less work to just trust physics and use PVC pipe as-is without any extra unnecessary precautions.
If you're still concerned, I'd suggest reading the following articles, which cover the topic in much more depth:

Exploding PVC Dust Collection Ductwork?
Grounding PVC and Other Dust Collection Myths

Lastly, keep in mind that if you are running a central dust collection system, you aren't going to get enough airflow or air velocity if you cheap out on the dust collector itself. Once you've planned out your pipe, crunch the numbers with Bill Pentz's static pressure calculator (Excel spreadsheet) to find the CFM and static pressure requirements, and use those as the minimum specs when shopping for a dust collector.

