Q:

What causes the very dark brown and black color of some antique oak?

In the Britain, there is a great deal of antique oak furniture and even room wood paneling that is very dark brown and black, sometimes with red undertones, and without the typical golden hues of modern oak.  What causes this oak to have this dark brown color?  Is it the aging of the wood, the aging of the finish (stain, oil, wax, varnish, etc), the normal color of some local variety of oak, was it stained originally in this dark color somehow, or something else?  These items mostly appear to be from pre-1900s.  Examples at the bottom.
The information I can find from retailers of oak furniture, woodworking books, DIY instructional sites, and oak as a material have all pertained to current woodworking processes rather than old processes.  I have found descriptions on the effects of age on current processes over years and maybe decades, but not centuries, and again that would be for modern processes and materials, not these antiques.
Examples:

https://www.sellingantiques.co.uk/977450/18th-century-oak-box-settle/

https://www.sellingantiques.co.uk/1004012/a-17th-century-panelled-oak-coffer/

17th century Globe Room of the Ye Olde Reine Deer Inn in Banbury, UK

A:

Natural effects, the wood itself
As touched on in some previous Answers, wood naturally changes colour over time. This 'base effect' so to speak is primarily due to UV light exposure.
The natural colour change due to light essentially works in two directions: lighter woods tending to darken, darker woods tending to lighten. Oak is one of the former.
There are other natural effects with certain species and oak is one of those. This can be seen by the dark colouring of the underside of the lid's two boards and other parts of the interior, which would of course not have been exposed to much light.
Tannin reaction
And in addition to the above, oak is famous for its high tannin content and this will account for some of the particularly dark colouring in very old oak furniture pieces — tannins react with iron to produce iron tannate which is a permanent black compound. This is what creates the blackish staining around nails and other iron/steel fasteners in wood.
But where the tannic acid content is particularly high it only requires exposure to tiny amounts for a reaction to occur, for example any iron or iron salts dissolved in water used to wipe down a piece during routine cleaning. It only requries a single exposure for this to start happening; and contrary to common perception even when a piece is heavily oiled and/or waxed, some of the water can get through to the wood.
Throw in a span of 400+ years and it's not hard to imagine how many chances there have been for some exposure to iron.
Linseed oil
In addition to the effects occurring in the wood itself there's also a possible contributing effect if the wood were ever oiled, since in both Europe and America the primary oil used for such purposes was linseed oil.
It's well known that linseed oil immediately deepens the tone of wood but in addition to that it darkens significantly over very long timeframes, typically turning from the starting colour of amber or deep orange to various brownish shades, but can sometimes go distinctly reddish (as noted with some period military gunstocks). And in addition to the darkening over time, if raw linseed oil is allowed to cure in the dark it can turn very dark indeed, almost black1.
Dirt and grime
Anyone who has ever cleaned a very old piece of furniture knows how much dirt can lurk in corners, recesses and carved detail! But this can also build up in natural features of the wood itself such as open grain — and oak is an open-grained species; some of the black colour in the grain lines of the oak settle above is very likely to be grime built up over time, some of which will have been 'locked in' by oiling or waxing over it.
Some combination of all of the above factors is what accounts for the particular dark and sometimes blackish colouring of old oak furniture and panelling in interiors.
Where it's not of natural origin......
Because of this dark colouring being so common, it started to become desirable for older furniture pieces, as well as panelling and other architectural features, to be this dark. As a result it should come as no surprise that the colour of some oak was 'enhanced' using wood dyes2, or coloured finishes because "That's what old oak looks like." Your third link undoubtedly shows examples of this in the pub interiors3.
This very dark brown colouring was (and still is) often generically associated with the Jacobean period, hence the presence to this day in finish ranges of "Jacobean Oak" or just "Jacobean" wood stains/dyes and coloured finishes.

1 Curing mostly or entirely in the dark may be what accounts for the redder tones.
2 Starting with the traditional Van Dyke crystals. These somewhat confusingly come from walnut trees :-)
3 The pieces in the first two links I would judge to be in as-found condition, bar cleaning and a fresh waxing, but there's absolutely no way to be sure from photos. (Note that it may even be impossible to tell in person, hence the number of people, even pros in the trade, who have been and continue to be fooled by clever fakes.)

