Q:

How to remove the "yellow" look from pine?

I recently finished building my stairs with pine wood. I was expecting to stain them to give it a bit darker look, but I didn't like the end result.
I know I should have picked another wood to start with, but I pine was widely available and I always assumed that staining it darker would do the trick.
Basically I would like to remove the yellowish look as much as possible so that it matches my floor better (left side)
How can I achieve this?

A:

The other answer that discusses matching with stains is completely reasonable (and offers what is arguably the correct answer: stain or bleach to match), but I'd like to offer a reframing challenge: don't do anything at all.
Who says your new stairs made with modern freshly resawn pine must match your floors made sometime in the past with completely different lumber? Wood is a natural product, and we choose it partially because of the so-called flaws and differences between pieces (even from the same species).
So, yes. You can try to stain or treat the wood to bring it closer to the floors. But, here's the rub: you will never be able to match perfectly. I'd suggest this is a place where you want to encourage contrast because having pieces that don't quite match is, to me, much worse than decent carpentry and finish that serves the overall purpose and design, but with some nice contrast.
This is why we can have different species of wood for our tables, trim, floors, and stairs. Wood contrasts nicely with other wood. Lean into that.
Eventually these fresh stairs will darken and lose the yellow, and end up somewhat but not quite the same as others sorts of pine in your house.
Life's too short to spend days being a mad scientist trying to match colours like this. Unless you are undertaking a restoration process, my advice is enjoy your nice stairs and get back to that honey-do list. Because there are always more projects to complete. Your SO and your guests won't notice the colour of the stairs, other than to marvel how nice they are.

