Q:

Applying clamping pressure on opposing sides of a circle

I was in a boardroom and I noticed that one of the clocks had dropped off its nail and it broke the frame in two places. I assumed is was a very cheap clock made with plywood or some other engineered material. To my surprise it was laminated solid wood. 

The repair for this seems simple enough. Just need to glue it. Issue is that I want to provide clamping pressure perpendicular to the direction of the crack. That is not easily done. Now, it would probably suffice to clamp on sides (shown in the picture as the right and left sides) and get a pretty good seal. 
Let's play and pretend that this clock is something more important and I want to be sure the clamping pressure is as close the to crack as possible. How can that be done?
I picture a jig of the same diameter as the circle so that it can't bow out but I wonder if there are simpler ideas. Likely this would apply as well to other things and not just circles... other polygons with a large number of sides. 

A:

I picture a jig of the same diameter as the circle so that it can't bow out but I wonder if there are simpler ideas. Likely this would apply as well to other things and not just circles... other polygons with a large number of sides. 

Lots of people use ratchet straps to clamp odd shapes together:

(source)
These are nice because they apply a consistent pressure around the shape and will keep it from bowing out.
Otherwise, one idea that might work is a clamshell-type jig where you take a square piece of plywood, cut it in half, cut out the shape of the thing you want to clamp (half on each side) and then use that to clamp the shape back together.  This would be like these conduit clamps on a related Question here.

The repair for this seems simple enough. Just need glue it. Issue is that I want to provide clamping pressure perpendicular to the direction of the crack. That is not easily done. Now, it would probably suffice to clamps on sides (shown in the picture as the right and left sides) and get a pretty good seal.

For the size piece you're working with, clamping from opposing sides will probably be sufficient since the pieces are pretty stiff with comparison to the span.  You could put a "bumper" clamp next to the splits to control the tendency to bow outward too (similar to a caul for keeping table tops flat during glue-ups).

A:

I have used ratcheting band clamps on curved shapes with very good results. ( I could not find an image using the clamp on a circular form, but the principle is the same.) Rather than applying pressure in a single direction it provides uniform pressure towards the center.  

