Q:

Are there square-taper drill bits larger than 1-1/2" for hand braces?

A project description instructs to bore 1-3/4" through-holes into a benchtop to insert round tenons from legs. ("Herculaneum Workbench", book: Ingenious Mechanicks, Chapter VI, p106, by C. Schwarz)
I thought this might be doable with a hand brace, but I'm having difficulty sourcing an irwin/jennings bit of that size. I've found large flutes called "ship augers", but they are designed for large power drills (based on the chuck shape required to fit them). In the auger kits that fit square-tapered bit braces, the largest auger in the kit is often smaller, at 1" or 1-1/2".
What type of brace bit should be used for larger holes? Is boring large holes into a thick slab, with a hand brace, a bad idea?

A:

You may find that you need a brace with a larger than normal sweep for boring a hole this size.  They were manufactured in various sizes.  A more common configuration for an auger of this diameter would be something like a barrel eye pattern.  They are still available new - here
https://www.oldtoolstore.co.uk/new-barrel-eye-augers-various-sizes-available-84-p.asp 
The advantage of these is the additional leverage given from the handle, and they're generally tough enough to drill through oak.  
The alternative is a flat bit - simple and cheap.  Make up a block such that it has an angled face so the bit starts horizontal, and then clamp the block above your desired hole to ensure your bit will follow the correct direction.  Augers or flat bits are not good at starting at an angle, and need help.  
There are also modern sawtooth bits which will do the job, using power tools, but again, for a typical splayed leg angle, they may need some alignment help, despite their accurate habits.
Further information
An adjustable bit is weaker than a solid one.  You will find it very difficult to start it at an angle, as it makes contact at only one point of its sweep.  Further, if you are using beech or similar for your bench top, then I'd be very careful.  The lead screw is fat, and the cutter is weak.  A recipe for a broken bit.   An oak-beamed timber ark is still in existence with a part of one of my adjustable bits in it.  Of course, that's just one instance, but my spider senses were screaming 'bad idea' and they're usually to be relied on.  The urgency of completing the restoration, on site, in the woods, cost me the bit, and a return visit.  
You can also make your own scraper version to enlarge a hole, or you could go with square mortices - whatever Chris says in his book.  Back in whenever one would have access to a lathe of some sort for the legs, and they would be made to whatever large size auger was on hand.  Spoon bits on twenty-foot irons existed for boring out water pump timbers and for string on line.  Needs a skilled hand to use them of course.  

A:

Irwin makes adjustable bits that allow holes up to 3" in diameter to be bored with a hand brace.  There may be other options available on EBay.  Here is Irwin's web page for their versions of it.

