Q:

How do you remove bed bugs from lumber?

I have access to a large amount of lumber that is infested with bed bugs. 
Is there an extermination technique that I can do at home to rid this wood of the infestation? I am open to applying pretty much any chemical that is readily available for consumers to purchase. It's ok if it's poisonous to humans, I have space where I can store the lumber for a few days where people won't be exposed.

A:

It's worth knowing that Bed bugs don't have a particular affection for wood but any small space where they can hide near a host.
Don't use it
Best advice I would say for materials that have a known infestation. I would also suggest avoiding toxic fumigation. "It's OK if it's poisonous to humans" is a scary concept. Yes, you will be fumigating this wood and will keep people away from it. However you don't say what you will be doing with the wood. If humans/animals will have contact with it later then I worry about latent chemical residue.
Most sites that discuss fumigation, where wooden furniture is concerned, warn that the process might not penetrate the wood enough. If that is the case then all that would have been accomplished is exposure to bed bugs and toxic chemicals. Those points are a very important aspect of what you should consider.
The little buggers can survive for a year without a host so even if you think you get them all it can be a while before you see them again (assuming they haven't moved!).
If you really, really must
In general having the wood in a dry kiln or any heat controlled environment, for an extended period of time should kill the bugs. FYI using a dry kiln is the IPPC approved method of non-toxic treatment of pallets before they are shipped internationally. Some are more resistant that others especially at different stages in development. Also sealing the wood after that can help slow if not stop their propagation. Be wary though if they are still contained inside the finished wood.
In theory a credible source
Looking at an in depth article on bed bugs from the US National Library of Medicine 

Heat is a very practical and effective means of nonchemical bed bug control. The exposure of C. lectularius to 45°C for 1 h will kill all stages , and at temperatures over 60°C, all bed bugs are rapidly killed.

I never have kiln dried anything and don't know if those temperatures are liable to damage rough wood or dry them too quickly. Just understand that heat can kill 'em dead.
I found this little post useful as well. It is centric to a university but the advice is applicable outside that scope. For a general guide on bed bugs:
Best Management Practices for Controlling Bed Bugs
Casual Nudging Reminder
Again, there are other ways to get wood and I would strongly consider using other sources.

