Q:

Will this setup severely reduce the CFM from my dust collector?

Just picked up a Grizzly G8027, after previously using a small shop vac + dust deputy cyclone.
I am, possibly incorrectly, assuming that I should be using both together.  So I am considering running the 4" hose from the dust collector into the cyclone, and then back out.  That means I go 4" to 1.5" and again from 1.5" to 4" to attach to my table saw, jointer, etc...
UPDATE - It turns out I could also use a 2.5" fitting instead of 1.5" fitting (shown here, it's a tapered end on the dust deputy).  Is that any better?
Or should I get a trash can separator lid off of amazon?
So my questions are:

Am I reducing my CFM by doing this?
Do I even need the Dust Deputy?  From what I understand the cyclone is great to use in conjunction with a dust collector to minimize the dust that makes it into the Grizzly bag
Bonus: You see the hose I have.  I need something sturdy that I can use coming out of the cyclone into the woodworking equipment (4" ports), which will facility a lot of plugging in / out all of the time.  Any ideas?

In these photos, please disregard the terrible 4" connection into the deputy, I'm trying to find the right adapters at the moment =).

A:

Yes, you just murdered your CFM. In short:

Any cyclone adds resistance
Sizing down from 4" to 2.5" or 1.5" reduces CFM because the cross-section of the pipe is dramatically reduced
Flex hose adds more resistance than smooth pipe
Numerous sharp bends (90 degrees or more) add significant resistance

See https://woodworking.stackexchange.com/a/3218/49 for more information.
As you noted, you are using a cyclone intended for use with a shop-vac; however, Oneida manufactures a different 4" model intended for dust collectors.
For what it's worth, if you run the numbers, even the best 2HP or less dust collectors hooked up to a tool with a mostly straight 10' run of 4" flex hose will barely produce the necessary 4000 FPM air velocity at the tool to capture most of the dust.

