Q:

Is there an average depth that works best for book shelves?

I am planning on building a bookcase and some previous attempts have resulted in shelves that are too deep for most books.
Is there an average depth that would work best? For example would a 9-inch deep shelf fit for most books and standard paperbacks (8.5 x 11)?
I walked around my existing book collection with a tape measure and determined that 9.5" inches will work for a) paperbacks b) average size other books c) binders.
Another possible option would be to query the Library of Congress (via API?) to see what the average/median dimensions are for books in the past 30 years.
[Update]
I went with a 9.5 inch deep bookcase.  This works well for most of my books and optimizes the usage of the 4'x8' sheet of plywood.
Note:  Cutting 4x8 sheets of 3/4" plywood on a portable tablesaw is very challenging especially when the lumber yard's table saw is broken!

A:

12" deep shelves are too deep for most books, again most books. I would make the bookshelf a "breakfront", the 2 lower shelves 12" deep above a 4" base or toe space, and step the front back at the 30-32" height and make the remaining shelves, 8, maybe 10" deep.

A:

"Most books" is far too broad. Books of what type? Standard paperpacks or oversized ones? Modern hardback novels or vintage/antique books? 
Even assuming you mean regular paperbacks I don't think an average is the way to look at this. There may be a common, perhaps even typical, shelf depth for a bookcase but I've yet to see it myself, so an average of the various depths that are manufactured might result in a shelf as unsatisfactory (for some books certainly, perhaps even for all books) as your previous builds.
Surely the way to approach this is to measure your books and decide the clearance from the front that you like and bingo, you have your perfect depth? All that's needed after that is to build the bookcase accordingly. 

A:

Depends on your books. The ones I built last time used 1x12's; that's overkill but it does handle some oversized art books and lets me put two rows of paperbacks on a shelf (one upright, another tilted back in front of them). 
Book sizes might vary by country, but a table of traditional sizes can be found at
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_size
And note that you want the shelf to be able to handle your larger books, not you average book.

