Q:

Creating a flat on logs to allow bandsaw milling

I have some small walnut logs I'd like to mill on my 14" bandsaw. (About 300mm diameter, and up to 1 meter long, but able to be cut down into shorter lengths as even at this size they're rather heavy!)
For safety, this requires either a sled, or a flat base on the log to avoid it rolling on the bandsaw.
With only about about 230mm of height available on the saw flattening one side seems like it would flatten the base and reduce the needed height.
Previously I've done this with a hand held planer, but now I have available an 8" jointer - is it safe to use the jointer to flatten one side of these logs?
I've seen references to people doing this online. e.g:
https://www.lumberjocks.com/topics/43666
and
https://www.woodworkingtalk.com/threads/can-i-run-split-logs-through-a-planer.135473/
But can't find many references to doing it, so am not sure if this is considered safe.
I've considered splitting the logs with a maul first, but the grain in some of them is quite curly so I don't see that going particularly well.
I can also fall back to the the hand held planer, but that's pretty slow going and doesn't leave a hugely flat surface due to its small size.

A:

It would be helpful to know how small your small logs really are.   The answer to your question really depends on both the diameter and length of the wood you propose to run through the jointer.   But basically, if the logs are small enough that you can control them, the jointer will work fine.   That generally means short enough to be stable on both the infeed and outfeed tables, and small enough in diameter that the weight of the log is easily manageable.  I think your 300mm by 1m walnut logs are probably at the upper limit of what is practical  - even dry, that's 20+kg of wood to wrestle about the jointer, and they won't be fully dry by any means.
I would suggest some caution though, if the logs are very wet.   Jointers are not designed for milling wet lumber, and you could experience problems with chip clearance, and of course you'll want to thoroughly clean the machine after, as wet wood will promote rust throughout the machine.   Same is true for the bandsaw - a blade with set that is perfect for kiln dried lumber will struggle, bind and overheat in wet timber.  That said, I have run many small logs through a jointer as prep for sawing them on the bandsaw.   Works well, and if the log isn't overly large, you can reliably joint two sides at right angles to get a billet that is ready for straight slabbing on the saw.

