Q:

Can one safely mount an 8" blade in a 10" saw if the arbor sizes are compatible?

I am looking to pick up a new cabinet saw.  I have currently two table saws, a 10" and an 8".  I use the 8" with a Freud SBOX8 box-joint blade and pretty much use that saw exclusively for box joints.
I'm wondering if I pick up a 10" cabinet saw, is it possible, given same size arbors, that I could run the 8" blade in the 10" saw or is there some danger I am not considering?

A:

Yes you can.
As long as the hole in the blade is the same size as the arbor, you can mount any blade with a diameter smaller than the maximum your saw can use.*
The only real difference, besides maximum cutting depth, is that smaller blades are often thinner and have a narrower kerf. I was curious if this could make them unsafe to run at the same speed as a larger blade, but actually the opposite is true.

Source: Freud via http://joneakes.com/jons-fixit-database/920-Saw-blade-safe-rotational-speeds
Smaller blades can run faster since their mass is closer to the axis of rotation (I think), so they can be made thinner. But, the RPM of a smaller blade will be the same as that of a larger blade, and in fact the cutting edge will be moving slower. In other words: the blade isn't in danger.
One thing to note is that an identical cut should probably be made slower with a smaller blade, since the cutting edge of the blade is moving slower.
More specifically to your situation: The manual for the SBOX8 doesn't even mention the table saw's maximum blade size, which leads me to believe it isn't an issue. Also the SBOX8 is probably heavier than a normal 10" blade, so much of the general information above doesn't apply.
* Although it must be larger than the arbor flange, and large enough to cut things! 

A:

As RatchetFreak pointed out, you'd have to dismount the riving knife, which is a useful piece of safety equipment.
On the other hand, if you're just talking about box joints, that's a short, well-supported cut without much risk of the blade being pinched. Be careful about the risk of kickback from the top/back of the blade, but i think you'd be ok.
Note that it's common to run 8" dado sets on 10" saws, and those can't use riving knives either. Of course a dado buried in an aux fence has no blade-pinch risk... but i think it's fair to consider a box joint to be many narrow mid-panel dadoes.

