Q:

How flat should bench aprons be?

I'm building the Christopher Schwarz Knockdown Nicholson bench. This is my first foray into handtool building. I'm working on the aprons now and have cleaned up the boards and made them mostly flat on the faces. My question is, how flat is flat enough for the aprons? I understand that the top is the most critical and that generally flatter is better, but given that generally the aprons would be supporting boards while working edges and ends, is it important for it to be dead flat?

A:

The simple answer is dead flat, with faces parallel, but that's too simplistic and it needs to be looked at a little closer if we're talking hand tools only.
There actually isn't a single standard for flatness or parallel-ness, despite how it might seem in the era of power tools with the enormous amount of time and labour they save in basic four-squaring operations. In some furniture work it's actually not vital for both faces of a board to be flat, or parallel, since e.g. only one face is visible, or interacts with other pieces.
You could think of this as an extension of that. So, how un-flat is acceptable given that:

the backs of the aprons interact with the halving joints/lap joints in the legs, so have to be flat enough for that to work;

the outer face of the front apron is a bearing surface when boards are held against it during edge planing (and for the occasional wide end that you can't shoot), so should be flat enough for that to work well.

This leaves the outside face of the rear apron as the only face where it can easily be argued that it doesn't need to be flat. You could even leave it rough from the scrub/jack plane if you really wanted. Especially if it'll rarely or never be seen.
But there's another way of looking at this given that you state they're mostly flat already — the bulk of the work has already been done and it's not much additional effort to get to flat, not if your longest plane's iron is good and sharp and you follow proper procedure. Assuming you're working on a decent surface for planing that isn't moving around on you a lot and robbing energy from each push!
Maybe it would help to see someone doing this for reals, so take a look at this video from Frank's Workbench, Stock Prep with Hand Plane vs Jointer/Planer.

