Q:

Can I add white primer to danish oil to keep birch countertops light color?

New birch butcher block counter that I’d like to keep as light as possible. I’m thinking of whitewash with diluted primer, oil or water base, and either danish oil top coat or a wipe on poly. Can I add oil primer to the danish oil?

A:

Can I add white primer to danish oil to keep birch countertops light color?

Short answer: yes.
What you'll make is essentially very similar to some commercial products intended for the same purpose, which are essentially one of their existing finishes with some white pigment added1.
Longer answer: some experimentation would be highly advisable, even if you have experience in painting and other finishing already you won't be able to predict how much whiteness a given quantity of white primer (or paint) will impart to the "Danish oil". So you'll have to do some small tests of various mixes, noting the ratios; write them down2. Apply the planned number of coats for every mix and assess how the wood looks after they've dried (there is likely to be some change in appearance from wet to dry).
You can use the underside for this testing if you don't have any offcuts to work with. But be sure to protect the top from dings and dents by putting old sheets or a blanket etc. under it while you're working on the back.

I’m thinking of whitewash with diluted primer, oil or water base, and either danish oil top coat or a wipe on poly.

This is definitely also a viable option; you wouldn't be the first to go this route. Probably obvious but again testing will be necessary to work out how much to thin, how to apply it effectively on such a large surface, how much you need to wipe away excess and possibly other things.
Note: if you do it this way and you want to keep the wood as pale as possible it would be advisable to use a waterbased finish (even if you choose to use an oil-based white paint or primer) so that the topcoat doesn't impart a noticeable yellow tinge (which will deepen over time, guaranteed).
Choose your waterbased finish with care as they are very much not all equal and you'll want to pick one of the better ones for a countertop.

1 Examples include Skagerak Cura Oil White, Guardian White-pigmented Oil, Rubio Monocoat Oil Plus 2C White 5%, Osmo 3068 Top Oil Natural.
2 If you have a good memory it's tempting to just rely on it, but you never know if you'll need to repeat this mixture sometime down the road when you can't be certain you'll still remember exact quantities.

