Q:

How can I order wood which won't warp?

NB I am in the UK. The situation could be significantly different in other countries.
I currently want to build some simple bookcases. I loathe MDF and want to make these from solid wood.
Many years ago I tried to do that: I bought some Parana Pine. This appears to have been about the worst choice I could have made! Yes, it warped horribly and the shelving was a piece of cxxp. So depressed was I by this experience, and apprehensive about warping and twisting of any wood I might buy from timber merchants, that on the two or so occasions since then that I have put up shelves I instead ordered some "shelving assembly system".
So just now I've started looking around to see what the situation is currently (NB I am in South London). But I find it very difficult to know how realistic it is to expect solid wood to have been properly dried and then sawn/milled, making it fit for purpose. And yet there must be 000s of skilled carpenters in the UK who do manage to obtain properly prepared wood.
One site with branches local to me is championtimber.com. The following are examples of prices:

Softwood: 21 x 215 mm (finished) £21.30 per metre inc. VAT
Meranti/Seraya 20 x 220 mm (finished) £36.95 per metre inc. VAT
American White Oak: 20 x 220 mm (finished) £55.44 per metre inc. VAT

What are the chances that I won't find these boards twisting horribly in the days and weeks following delivery? At those sorts of prices I don't want to make mistakes!
Cheaper: at buildingmaterials.co.uk I am slightly shocked to see that they are selling 25 mm x 225 mm (nominal) pine for ... £7.14 per metre! Is cheaper likely to mean more twisty/warpy? I have no idea whatsoever.
How can I increase the chances of ordering non-warping, non-twisting wood for my little project?

A:

Ideally you would let the wood acclimatize to the environment it is going to be in after the project is finished before using it. This may take a few months depending on the species and thickness.
That way any warping will happen before you plane the wood to thickness and make your cuts.
Yes, this will mean having a pile of wood for pending projects in your woodshop. Or more realistically a pile of wood that you pull from for your projects that you refill regularly but then let those new pieces sit for a few months before they are eligible to be used.
After the wood is properly dried for the environment then you can refinish the wood and getting it straight again.

A:

How can I increase the chances of ordering non-warping, non-twisting wood for my little project?

Find a reliable local hardwood supplier and build a relationship with them. Instead of ordering online, visit the supplier in person. I don't know if hardwood suppliers work the same way in the UK as they do here in the US, but in my experience being able to look through the stacks of boards to find the ones that suit you is invaluable, and the supplier should be able to help you find a species that will work for your project and fit in your budget.
If you're able, buy rough sawn lumber and mill the boards yourself. If you don't have the equipment for that, the dealer should be able to do it for you for a fee.
Narrow boards are a lot less likely to cup and twist than wide boards, and they're usually less expensive per unit volume too. The tradeoff, of course, is that if you need wide stock, you'll have to spend more time joining two or three narrow boards.
If you're really worried about warping, plywood tends to be much more stable than solid wood. I understand that you "loathe" MDF and would prefer solid wood, and that's fine, but woodworking is all about tradeoffs, plywood is a very different product from MDF, and again, plywood can provide a degree of stability that solid wood can't.

And yet there must be 000s of skilled carpenters in the UK who do manage to obtain properly prepared wood.

It's a good bet that they're working directly with a trusted supplier rather than ordering online. They might or might not be selecting the wood themselves, but either way they're probably buying often enough and/or in sufficient quantity that the supplier wants to make sure they're happy. And if they're working with hardwoods they're probably milling the stock themselves.

