Q:

What's the difference between 100% mineral spirits and similar products? (paint thinner, odorless mineral spirits, etc)

A few years ago, I finished some "butcherblock" (stave construction glue up countertop).  I did 3 coats of BLO then used a homemade wiping varnish of gloss polyurethane mixed with MS.  The exact product I used for the MS was labeled "paint thinner" and in the fine print it said "100% mineral spirits".  I liked the results and want to do something similar.
However, now I can not find 100% mineral spirits.  Instead I find a wide variety of products that call themselves mineral spirits or paint thinner, with words such as "odorless", "green", "fast to dissolve", etc.  There is "odorless mineral spirits" and "odorless mineral spirits substitute".  What was easy (buy 100% mineral spirits) is now impossible and there are so many choices my head is spinning.  I have no idea which one I should buy.
A little bit of googling found some very poor reviews of these newer products compared to good old fashioned mineral spirits.  But unfortunately I don't think I can get my hands on the old stuff.
Question:
Can one of these products be used in exactly the same way as the 100% mineral spirits I had before, or how will I need to modify my approach?  Which one(s) are most similar or otherwise recommended?

A:

If you can still buy standard OMS ("odourless" mineral spirits) this should work for most purposes in wood finishing, despite its reduced solvent action. In addition to the greatly reduced odour it is actually materially safer, so for many it's worth using anyway despite the higher pricetag.
While users should bear in mind that it isn't as strong as other solvents in the same family, and there might be some future use where this becomes an issue, Bob Flexner noted in the past (my emphasis):

The mineral spirits left after the toluene and xylene are removed is sold as “odorless” mineral spirits. When understood this way, it’s obvious that odorless mineral spirits is a weaker solvent than regular mineral spirits.
But I’ve never found this to be a problem. It still appears to be strong enough to thin all common oils, varnishes and oil paints.

Source: Popular Woodworking, December 2007

For anyone who can't get plain ol' mineral spirits any more I suspect you're almost certainly not going to be able to find any of the following either, but I'll list them for posterity anyway.

Stoddard solvent
paint thinner
VM&P Naphtha
naphtha (note: sometimes miss-spelled as naptha)
xylene (xylol)
toluene (toluol)

Note that this is roughly in ascending order of strength, but also of pungent odour, so please note if you're at all sensitive to solvent smells
More here from Bob Flexner on the sequence of petroleum-distillate solvents,  Petroleum distillates.

