Q:

How would you make these brackets from Fine Woorking's Modular Wall Unit plans?

I'm a beginner woodworker, but I'm intrigued by these plans for a Modular Wall Unit from Fine Woodworking. They're outside my skill range but could be a fun challenge.
The plans are pretty detailed, but when it comes to making these brackets, it just says "The brackets are two solid-wood pieces that are mitered, reinforced with dominos, and glued together."
How would you approach cutting the angles for these two pieces? Even with a deep miter saw, it seems like there isn't enough wood to hold onto for the final cut for that to be a good idea. Would you do it on a table saw with a miter gauge? Would you build a jig for it? This is probably obvious to the people who wrote these plans, but I don't know what the typical approach would be!

A:

These kinds of long miters are indeed fairly tricky to cut. Some options:

Table saw with a jig. The jig would allow you to clamp the wood at an angle and then slide across the fence (toggle clamps are best for this, but you can rig something for f-clamps as well). This allows for long cuts (i.e. shallow angles) and is probably the safest way to do this
Table saw with miter gauge, works okay for smaller pieces. Might be better to do the miter first and cut to size after to avoid cutting a piece that is awkward to hold tight against the miter gauge
Sliding miter saw that has enough capacity for this. Do note that miter saws typically come with cross cut blades, but in this case it is closer to a rip cut. Cross cut blades will bog down and tend to pull the wood more in this configuration than regular cross cutting
Circular saw/jigsaw/handsaw. Mark the line of the cut, clamp the wood to the edge of the workbench so that the cut overhangs and cut it. As suggested, might want to plane/sand the final edge to be straighter

Another alternative is not to cut the edge straight, but instead have a certain decorative pattern. Cutting that with a jigsaw or scroll saw would be fairly easy and wouldn't require as much accuracy as a straight edge.

