Q:

How likely is it for bubbles to form with spray-applied polyrethane compared to brush-applied?

I am thinking about applying polyurethane on my wood to protect it against moisture.  But I'm concerned about bubbles forming in the polyurethane.
I see why bubbles may form when applying polyurethane improperly when using a brush, but what I don't know is whether bubbles can form when applying the same by spraying.
Question. How likely is it for bubbles to form with spray-applied polyurethane compared to brush-applied?

A:

I see why bubbles may form when applying polyurethane improperly when using a brush

Bubbles can actually occur even with good application technique.
Obviously if bubbles are present in the finish to begin with they can be transferred to the surface — hence the very common "Do not shake" instruction on cans of finish — but even when the finish has zero bubbles in it initially bubbles can form during application.
This is due to turbulence caused by the drag of the application tool1 over the surface; this is the primary cause of bubbles  (source: Bob Flexner).
Bubble formation and remaining bubbles after drying are much more of a problem with waterbased finishes than with oil-based varnish2.

How likely is it for bubbles to form with spray-applied polyurethane compared to brush-applied?

Pretty unlikely! You'll notice, in contrast to the instructions on normal containers, spraycans instruct us to shake well ^_^
From this you can tell that bubbles are a non-issue with spray application. When sprayed a liquid is highly compressed and then converted to tiny droplets, which eliminates bubbles of any significant size.

1 This includes natural and synthetic bristle brushes, foam brushes and even wiping rags. You can watch this process occur in front of your eyes next time you apply varnish or waterbased finish at anything other than a snail's pace.
2 For a number of reasons, one of which is that oil-based varnishes usually dry much more slowly which gives time for bubbles to rise to the surface naturally and pop. Also oil-based varnish can safely be heavily diluted (e.g. when converted to wiping varnish) which eliminates the problem of bubbles nearly 100%.

