Q:

Wood to use for case holding Lionel train set

I am planning to build a case to hold my old Lionel train set.  I have the original cardboard and styrofoam box, which is beat up at this point and I'd like to give the train to my son in a keepsake box.
The total weight of the set is than 10 pounds (maybe less than 5).  There are half a dozen cars, a dozen sections of track and various accessories.  I would like to build a flat case, perhaps one that opens like a book.  It will have compartments covered with a layer of thin foam and felt.  The dimensions are ~2'x2' (or double if I put everything on one level).
I have little experience with woodworking and would be doing everything by hand.  I have only done little projects in the past and always using pine.  I am deciding what wood makes most sense for this project, considering I want it to be sturdy, but lightweight.  Pine is easy for me to work with, but might be too soft.  What wood would be light enough to be very portable, but strong enough to stand the test of time?  Also avoiding the most expensive wood.
Thanks very much.

A:

Pine is easy for me to work with, but might be too soft. What wood would be light enough to be very portable, but strong enough to stand the test of time? Also avoiding the most expensive wood.

Though pine is soft, it is still a good choice.
In The Anarchist's Tool Chest, Chris Schwarz recommends eastern white pine for the carcase construction of the chest.  The reason is that it's lightweight and easy to work.  Also, a tool chest, being essentially a shop tool itself, is expected to get dinged up and show its age.  With all of the heavyweight joinery used in the chest (dovetails everywhere), the connections between the pieces are robust enough that a less-strong wood works fine.
You say you want your box to be ~2'x2', and I'm going to assume that it will be about 6" deep too to fit the contents.  That's going to be a pretty lightweight pine box.  Compare that to, say, oak, and you will see a savings of 30-50% in weight, with not really a huge difference in durability if properly constructed.
If you want the box to look "better" than a simple stained and varnished pine box, you might want to go the route used for Schwarz's tool chest.  He used milk paint to cover the chest - a base layer of red followed by a black outer layer.  As the chest wears in, the black will get scuffed off, revealing the red underneath.  Personally, I find this effect very pleasing.  You could do something similar in the Lionel orange and blue, or even get really fancy and do up the Lionel logo in paint.

(source)

A:

It depends on what you have available for tools.  Assuming a minimal set of tools, and limiting myself to commonly available stuff, I'd recommend using 1/4" plywood for the top and bottom of the case, and 1/2" hardwood for the dividers and sides.  Baltic Birch plywood would be the best.
My Dad made a similar case for me when I was a kid for storing my many matchbox cars.  As I recall, it was a hardwood box with plywood bottom and a piece of Plexiglas set that slid in a groove to cover it.

