Q:

How to fix failed attempt to remove spot on table?

I built this table out of ash, and finished it with Osmo Polyx hardwax oil, about 2 years ago. Recently a brown stain about 1/2" circle appeared. It looked to be down deep in the wood. The Osmo oil finish still repels water, but I figured perhaps it had gotten thin there and allowed a spill to seep in. I read online that you should sand down and sometimes that can remove it, but if not, to treat it with mineral spirits. Mineral spirits are banned in California now, but I read that acetone can also work.
So...I sanded down, which did nothing, then wiped with acetone, which also did nothing. I brushed off the sawdust but didn't vacuum (I suspect that was part of my mistake here). I then coated with some Osmo Polyx, figuring that might darken the sanded spot. No luck.
As you can see, it pretty much looks terrible in that spot. Is there anything I can do to mask the sanded spot at this point? Maybe a wax filler stick? Or sand again deeper and then vacuum well? I just want to get it back to the original wood color at this point.

A:

Is there anything I can do to mask the sanded spot at this point?

Possibly.
Despite the much-touted potential with some finishes to be able to "just sand and reapply the finish and the repair will be unnoticeable" the reality is often found to be different!1
The main issue with localised work on the surface of wood (finish or no finish) is: fresh wood is not the same colour as wood that has been exposed to light for a year or more.
We're often not consciously aware of this natural darkening because of course it happens incrementally over a long period, but as soon as you attempt a spot repair one becomes acutely aware of it! When you sand more than the lightest amount you are sure to reveal the fresh colour of the wood as has happened here. (Same if you have to plane or scrape.)
In theory you could therefore adopt a wait-and-see attitude and, fingers crossed, in six months or more the wood at the repair spot will have darkened to the same colour as the wood around it. That's a long time to wait with only a chance it'll come out good in the end.
Some refinishing guides suggest local dyeing of paler repairs to match the colour of the wood around them. But while this certainly can work for the short term, what about when the wood beneath naturally darkens? IMB this approach might be fine for certain low-visibility areas, especially on surfaces that don't get a lot of direct light, but the middle of a tabletop.....?
This is right in the middle of the most visible surface of a table, and like all such defects it will naturally tend to draw the eye. Worse when you already know it's there!
So I think that unfortunately the way to go is to just swallow the effort involved and refinish the whole top. That's what you'll have to do anyway should the spot-refinishing attempt not work out long term.
If you go ahead with a full refinish you can take the opportunity to fully sand or heavily scrape the top and that might get down low enough that it'll erase the dark spot. It's sure to lighten it substantially at least. I would be inclined to try to get rid of the spot first2 myself, but that's totally up to you.

1 In fact that quote might be better expressed as "just sand and reapply the finish and if you're really really lucky the repair will be unnoticeable" ^_^
2 Since the stain could be of vegetable origin there's a decent chance the dark spot can be successfully lightened using common household bleach. If that doesn't work an oxalic acid solution would be the next thing to try (often works where conventional bleaching has failed, on red wine stains for instance).

