Q:

How can I create a sturdy walking cane

I've read a little and I see that butcher blocks are really sturdy, but they only seem to be used for flat surfaces, can I somehow adapt the technique for walking cane. eg. make a dozen cylinder and glued them on top of each other ? That would probably be pretty strong in the up-down axis (assuming the cane is standing up) what if I wanted to reinforce it so that it can't bend as easily ?
EDIT: I'm not looking to get the butcher block look or even actually make a cane, I'm looking into techniques to reinforce objects of that shape aka long, curved and thin pieces. For example, an "S".

A:

If you are looking for a way to get the butcher block effect in a cane (ie: stacked dowel blocks), the best way to accomplish this would be to create your dowel parts and drill them through the middle. Then use a threaded rod to hold the pieces together (along with glue) and provide extra strength. You'd have the handle of the cane also held together by the threaded rod, and put a cap at the bottom of the can to protect that end as well.
The problem is, while it will add extra strength, it's still not something I'd be throwing any kind of weight onto. You'd be better off in the strength department by creating a laminated piece lengthwise (ie: gluing several long, thin pieces together), then turning it on a lathe to get it round. This would provide the strength you'd need for a can, but I don't think it would give you the look you are thinking of.

A:

can I somehow adapt the technique for walking cane. eg. make a dozen cylinder and glued them on top of each other 

You can, but I wouldn't recommend it. If you just glued cylinders end to end those joints are end grain to end grain, the weakest glue joint. You would need to reinforce the stick through the centre and drilling perfectly central deep holes into end grain isn't just difficult, it can be impossible with some setups — often you'd need to buy a specialist bit for just this type of work, e.g. a spoon bit. 
It seems a needless complication anyway, since walking sticks of all sorts have traditionally and still are made from single pieces of wood (often saplings or branches) and they have proven strength and resilience.
If you decide you want to go ahead with your glued-up cane regardless, a good idea for the central reinforcement would be fibreglass or carbon-fibre rod. A simple hardwood dowel may be sufficient, but these would be stronger. I'm not certain you can easily buy them in the length you would require, but these are sold for example to make arrow shafts, as well as for fishing poles to give an idea of two possible sources.

