Q:

Recycling "pre-loved" lumber -- techniques?

(This may be multiple related questions;  assistance in breaking it up would be welcome if so.)
Many woodworkers have learned that a surprising amount of lumber, including some surprisingly good/interesting material, can be had cheap or free by deconstructing unwanted furniture and  shipping pallets, rescuing it from house renovations, and the like. What are the best ways to prep this for reuse? What unusual sources are there? (I know some folks have gotten expensive woods cheap by spotting something on eBay worth more as wood than as constructed object.)  What's the line between "worth repairing" and "worth scavenging" and "not worth the effort"?
I can start with a few observations/questions:
Obviously, going over it with a small metal detector to make sure there are no fasteners remaining to damage your tools is a good starting point. Lead paint is an obvious hazard to watch out for, as are termites. Pressure treatment can be a health risk. What else needs to be avoided?
Removing previous finish -- I've been told that paint is damaging to planer blades, and some folks just take a "veneer" layer off at the bandsaw to deal with it or keep an old set of planer blades around for this task. Do varnishes present the same risks? (I have a small stack of solid-oak flooring that could become picture frames or drawer components if I can clean it up without losing too much...)
What else does the aspiring upcycler need to know?

A:

I used a belt sander to remove most of the finish of some old tiger oak flooring before running it through the planer. 80 grit sand paper is cheaper than blades. But I did keep a set of old blades to use for the first pass on all of them. A metal detector is a great investment if you'll be doing a lot of reclaiming.

A:

Whether a peice of wood is worth it depends on how you are going to use it. If you want it for inlays then you don't need much viable wood. You just need enough to cut of the piece you want with a scroll- or band-saw. If you want to build a cabinet out of it then you will need a lot more.
You can scrape of the finish with a chisel. Sharpen it and hold it perpendicular to the surface. However depending on how you will use it you can leave it on.

