Q:

Would a 2 Pass Dowel Glue Up For a Hung Door Be Stronger and Reduce the Fall

I recently had to rehang a laundry door as it had dropped over the years.   As I was squaring up the door and redrilling the dowels I wondered whether the door would be stronger if I drilled and glued all the dowel holes in one pass, or two passes.
What I did was to drill and glue half the dowel holes, and then once dried, drill the other half.   I have no data, but I did think that the two pass method could be stronger just using normal PVA glue.
Does anyone have any proof that this is a stronger method/approach to glueing up?  My feeling is that it would be due to stresses being distributed.

A:

If you're doing any sort of glue-up using a PVA and the conditions or pace of work mean that the glue is partially set before things come together and full clamp pressure is applied you are compromising strength.
How much strength and whether it's enough to be significant is entirely down to the specifics of the situation so no predictions are possible.
Factors that will affect this are not limited to:

Obviously the biggie is the drying time of the PVA (readers please note this includes both white and yellow forms of "wood glue", they're all PVAs no matter what other name they go by).
The ambient humidity – high humidity is a help here.
The moisture content (MC) of the wood – dry wood means you have to work faster.

We've got some wiggle room here since glue bonds are so strong, and many applications don't actually require the max strength possible (where the glue joints are stronger than the wood) but I think it's best to always aim for max strength rather than be complacent and have something bite you now, or more likely after a few years when one or more compromised glue joints have loosened after multiple cycles of wood movement. Take note any budding chair makers.
Where strength is critical, do as much as you can in the window where the glue is still absolutely a liquid (not even remotely skinned over) and/or hasn't sunk into the wood (as happens quite quickly on end-grain surfaces as well as similar areas on long-grain surfaces where there's rising grain).
In published projects both in the magazines and on YouTube you'll regularly see larger projects broken up into stages, in part for precisely this reason. Even something fairly straightforward like laminations can be done in multiple steps if there are enough boards involved, i.e. two or three subassemblies are glued, and after those have set they're brought together in a final glue-up.
If you want to do everything in one operation
If for any reason you want/need to get something larger or more complex glued together in one go that is possible, switch glues.
You could try a PVA with a longer open time but you need a different glue type for a really comfortable working period, so you might switch to polyurethane glue or a urea-formaldehyde adhesive. And for a really comfortable, even sedate, glue-up obviously go with an epoxy since there are versions with setting times of an hour or more.

