Q:

Large Half Lap Joints For "L" Shelving

Fairly new to woodworking and building some pantry shelves that go on two walls, forming an 'L.' See pictures below.
My question is what is the best way to rout these fairly large half laps? The half laps are 9-1/4" x 6-7/8" x 3/8". My router base is smaller than the size of the half laps, so there is nothing to support the base without falling into the routed area. I made a simple jig (see picture) that works but I have to reposition it multiple times.
Am I missing something, is there an easier way to do this where I don't have to reposition a jig multiple times?

A:

My question is what is the best way to rout these fairly large half laps?

There's almost never a best way to do things — and not just in woodworking — because different people will have different opinions based on various factors. For this task they might include:

their router (how powerful it is and/or how fast or slow it can be set)
tied in with the above, which bits are available that are suitable
how much effort or time the user is willing to put into making a jig1
how much scrap material is available at the present time.

Also worth bearing in mind that not everyone would do this by power routing in the first place.....

My router base is smaller than the size of the half laps, so there is nothing to support the base without falling into the routed area.
Am I missing something, is there an easier way to do this where I don't have to reposition a jig multiple times?

A larger sub-base2 that would allow it to span a jig that would cover the longest dimension needed to do this in one shot.
But FWIW I think the jig you've built is perfectly adequate for the task at hand, and is more likely to have secondary usage than one made to cover the entire area of this lap joint.
Note: a crossing half-lap isn't ideal for a joint face this wide in solid wood, because it's a cross-grain situation and the two opposing directions of wood movement will stress the joint, and could cause other issues with your shelves over time3. A half lap of similar dimensions to this would be better reserved for man-made board materials which are dimensionally stable.
__
1 If any. Some people are pathologically opposed to making a jig for a single project!
2 These are very useful for a number of applications, and many are deliberately asymmetrical so a balancing handle can be placed way off to one side.
3 Including warping and a tendency to pull the support brackets off the walls.

