Q:

Is it drastically more work to sand down barn wood instead of planing?

100 reclaimed barn wood planks: 4.5 foot long X 6 inch wide X 3/4 inch thick.
Trying to get the weight down by half, by thinning to 3/8 inch thick.
See: Can barn wood planks be planed and how thin? 
Planing could work but has significant risk (and some pieces have large long cracks and holes).
Instead, what about sanding each one:

Is it possible or realistic to sand to 3/8 inch
thickness (or thin by half) ?
Any possible damage by sanding ? 
What type of sander would work ?
How long is this going to take ?

EDIT 
Intended Use: The wood planks are intended to be attached to a ceiling in a room. It is intended that the patina of one side of the barn wood is saved for it's aesthetics.

A:

Bandsaw the planks in half. They'll net out slightly under 3/8's but not only will it be faster, you'll end up with twice as many usable boards afterwards, because you'd be able to keep both faces. So it's a win-win. If you don't have a bandsaw, or access to one, then taking them to a commercial shop or even another hobby woodworker would be a good bet. Wide-belt sanders as were mentioned are large and expensive machines, but almost every serious wood shop has a bandsaw.

A:

A simple test on one plank will tell you that sanding is not practical for reducing the thickness by 3/8". Even planing them in a thickness planer will take 5-10 passes and sanding, even with course 60 grit, takes a lot less thickness off on each run, plus you will go through a lot of sanding belts. 
If you choose to plane them I recommend that you closely examine and prep each board before running it through a planer.  Check closely for any nails and clean them with a wire brush to remove as much grit on the rough sawn surfaces to reduce the risk of damaging your planer knives.  Even so, don't be surprised if your knives require replacement by the time you are through.

A:

Is it drastically more work to sand down barn wood instead of planing?

Using a wide-belt sander? No. Sanding it by any other means? Yes.

