Q:

What is the difference between a beveled and a mitered edge?

I know this is a basic question, but I see a lot of conflicting usage out there...  What is the difference between a beveled and a mitered edge?
I think people say "mitered" when they really mean "beveled".  Hoping to get some clarity once and for all! :)

A:

Most casual references seem to call all angled joints "miter joints".  However, I've found that most deliberate references to the two types of cuts seem to reflect what is shown in this image:

The actual description of these cuts is a bit hard for me to describe, but in practice, it seems that:

Bevel: What you would use to make a simple box without end grain showing (e.g. without butt joints)
Miter: What you would use to make a picture frame, door frame, etc.

Even the "anatomy" of the miter saw seems to back this up:

Ultimately, given the variety of perspectives on the matter, it seems there is no clear consensus.  Nit-picky individuals might discern a difference.  However, casually speaking, both "kinds" of joints can be called miter joints.

A:

I would say that a bevel is any angled cut, not necessarily used for joinery. A miter is a beveled edge (or set of beveled edges) cut to be joined.
I think you might find some people getting picky about it and saying that a "bevel" is along the length of the piece and a miter is on the width, but then what is it for a square?
If you go strictly by definitions (from m-w.com) ...  
Bevel: "a slanted surface or edge on a piece of wood, glass, etc."
Miter: " a surface forming the beveled end or edge of a piece where a joint is made by cutting two pieces at an angle and fitting them together"  
I'd say that supports my conclusion.
A miter is also a hat, but that's probably not so useful here.

A:

A miter is the angled cut for joining two pieces of material.
A bevel is a cut to know off the sharp edge of a piece of material, and may, in fact be round in profile (a radius). A bevel is used as a decorative finishing technique.

