Q:

How to increase maximum load capacity of a table?

I've never worked with wood before but would like to create my very first desk. 
Please let me know if this is a good idea and how to improve upon it! 
I plan to get a cheap desk from ikea: http://m.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/spr/29932181/
It states the maximum load capacity is 110lbs (50kg) but I'd like to increase it to like 170-200 lbs (80-90kg) so I can be sure my computer and monitors won't be stressing it. I might occasion put pressure from leaning on the table so I want to be extra sure it won't strain. 
I'd love to build it on my own but I don't have any proper tools and getting a sheet of wood that is thick enough is difficult. If anyone could comment on the above idea or have recommendations, please let me know!

A:

First of all, the 110 pounds they say for that desk almost certainly is being very conservative, it will probably actually hold at least twice that.  That being said, we can look at the ways it can fail and help mitigate each of those.
Looking at the specs on that desk , the top material is probably the weak point.  Putting a lot of weight over the middle of the desk could over stress the top itself causing it to break.  The easiest fix there is to put more of the weight directly over the legs.  If you want to strengthen the center, you can affix ribbing to the bottom to help spread the weight.  I wouldn't really expect that to work well in this case due to the fact that there isn't much material on the top to attach to - it is really just a thin torsion box.
This thin top material will lead to another probably source of failure - lateral movement.  If you apply much lateral force in either the X or Y plane, the fasteners holding the legs in will probably fail cause the table to collapse.  Since the legs are metal, there probably isn't a 'good' way to give them lateral bracing.  You could use some angle brackets and attach the desktop to a wall so that it cannot easily more side to side or front to back.  This coupled with keeping the weight above the legs would probably be your best bet.

