Q:

How can I make my own dowels?

I am in the process of designing a baby crib and am considering using vertical dowels for the sides.  I am not looking forward to purchasing dowels which are pricey, hard to find in quantity and quality, and don't show up in any but a few very common woods.
I am thinking about making them from scratch.  I know it's foolish and/or impossible to do on a lathe.  Any advice on methods and pitfalls of DIY dowels?
Still in the design phase, but anticipate 5/8" diameter by about 30".

A:

Three methods I know of.  First is a dowel plate.  You trim your wood to approximate size and use a mallet to pound it through smaller and smaller holes until it is the size you want.

You can also use a round over bit in a table mounted router.  Leave the ends square (to run along the fence), and pass all 4 corners across the appropriate sized round over bit.  You need to have a router fence and table that is about twice the length of the dowel you want to create.

A third way, that I have never tried personally, is to use a table saw.  You make a jig to pass the piece through perpendicular to the blade and turn the piece to round the corners.  If you want to go this route, it deserves a full question and answer by itself.

Lastly, there are companies that make custom dowels out of a variety of woods.  If you need several long dowels, this might be a better way to go.

A:

LeeG's method of using a router table is good though you can add finger boards.
After getting the blanks nearly round with the router you can jig up a chisel in a block of wood so it ends up looking a bit like a pencil sharpener.

Then with a hand-drill you can rotate the blank against the chisel so it ends up truly round.
This article describes the full process in detail.

A:

I have tried several methods. I'll list them below and comment:

Using Mattias Wandel's "pencil sharpener" method. 

This works moderately well but I found that the dowels had spiral grooves in them. Also, the wood broke over time, so I got sick of it. 

Using a router table:

This didn't work at all for me. There was too much force required to push the dowel through (although, I could have messed up somehow).

Router table roundover bit. This was mentioned by @LeeG. This worked great. It didn't make them perfectly round, but it was easy to chuck it in my drill and finish it off with some sand paper. 
Izzy Swan's method. I actually haven't tried this yet. The basic idea is that you drill a hole through steel. That hole will have a burr and that burr becomes a cutter as you feed wood through on a drill.

