Q:

What are the pros/cons of HSS vs Chrome Vanadium in drill bits?

I need to purchase a set of brad point bits (all I own are split point). I see some that are High Speed Steel (HSS) and others made of Chrome Vanadium (Cr-V), and I'm not sure how much the steel should factor into my purchasing decision.
I know it's not just a matter of "cheap ones are HSS and expensive ones are Cr-V" (or vice-versa) - I see that a highly rated brand has individuals and sets in both materials and the prices are similar for similar sized bits.
I did find this handy description but it focuses on drilling in metals, not wood, and is, therefore, off topic here. I'm sure some of it translates to wood working, but I'm not sure exactly how. At this link, they state:

High-Speed Steel (HSS) is a popular material good for drilling into soft steels as well as wood and plastic. It’s an economical solution for most maintenance drilling applications.

However, they have nothing to say about Cr-V, so I don't know if Cr-V, while apparently a popular material for wood-boring bits, is considered a more or a less economical choice, and whether it's better suited for wood drilling than HSS
I'd imagine that one is better for some purposes, while the other is better for other purposes.

What are the advantages of each material and when would one prefer one material over the other?
Is there enough difference to have sets of both (at some point down the line) and make a selection based on the type of hole/material one is making?
Is there enough differentiation between the two materials to really factor it into the decision making?

A:

AS already mentioned above, HSS should be a better material for making drill bits out of because it should be harder.  I have owned bits with HSS stamped on them that were definitely not great bits.
For brad point bits, the design and quality of production process are more important than the material when it comes to the quality of the hole.  The quality of the material (given the same design) would contribute to the lifespan between sharpenings.  Lifespan can also be dictated by the material you drill and the number of holes you drill(obviously).
If you will be drilling a few holes in soft/hard woods then don't worry too much about the bit material.  If someone has shown you that they drill nice clean holes then go for it.  If you are planning to drill thousands of holes in wood, MDF or plastics (plastics tend to generate more heat when drilling) then go for HSS (or if you're planning on living for a long time without buying more drill bits).  You certainly don't need two sets of the same drill sizes in different steels.
I have that same set of Fisch bits linked above but in HSS and they are brilliant.

