Q:

Rip cutting plywood on my table saw

I'm working on a project where I need to break down some sheet goods and I want to use my table saw to get the best and most accurate cuts parallel to the factory edge. The problem is that my workpiece is wider than the distance between the fence and the blade. I only have a job site saw at the moment.
What's the best way to handle this?
Also, I'm a little worried about safely doing this since I don't have an outfeed table and the sheet goods are big and unwieldy. I'm a beginner so I'm just looking to get some tips on how to manage this.

A:

For sheet goods, I prefer to bring the tool to the material instead of the other way around. Assuming you have a powered hand saw of some kind with a decent shoe, I'd recommend you give this a try.
Using a medium sized table saw for breaking down large sheet goods is a good way to find out how quickly a saw can separate meat from the unwary operator.
If you do any amount of work with sheet goods, I'd always recommend investing in some kind of guide. Some guides are just straight-edges you can clamp to the piece. Others are the fancier ones you attach to the shoe of the saw. It is, of course, a time-honoured tradition to make your own guide out of clamps and some factory cut lumber, as well.
I've used store-bought and home-made straight-edge guides in the past, and they all worked well enough for rough cuts.
Otherwise, my advice:

Have someone help you.
Build or borrow an outfeed table. Many shops are built with portable tables that are at the same height (or adjustable height) so they can be used for this exact purpose.
Assume it will bind and kick-back, and be prepared. Refresh yourself on how material behaves when some fraction of real horsepower decides it wants to transfer some rotational force in another unexpected direction.

A:

Depending on dimensions, and whether you need more than 2 pieces out of a sheet, you might rough cut the sheet goods into smaller chunks with a circular saw, then put them through the tablesaw. (This obviously isn't going to work if you need a 30" finished size and your saw only cuts 24".)
If the rough cut idea works for you, then you only need to get something (outfeed stand, box, milk crate) at the right height a few feet away to help with the outfeed.
If your needs are a little more complicated and can't be helped by rough cutting, then you'll need to build a temporary table to drop the job site saw into. Ideally, it's a full sheet of melamine faced plywood, though particle board would work. Have the saw positioned in the right-front corner of the sheet. Depending on your lumber source, they might have sheets around that have been slightly damaged that they'll sell for a discount.
And a final wildly expensive idea: get a tracksaw and a long track. It'll do everything you want without moving sheets around.

