Q:

Methods to prevent glue from filling narrow grooves during lamination

The kitchen knife-block that I own appears to have been constructed by:

Squaring off a large block of wood
Cutting into two opposite sides of the block a number of parallel slots (blind cuts) that run from the top of the block to the bottom. The slots appear to have been cut with a table saw with a 4 mm kerf, and each slot is cut to a depth that suits the blade height of a particular knife
Covering the whole of each of the two slotted faces of the wooden block with a thin sheet of decorative wood which stops the exposed length of the grooves, and thus holds the knives in place.

I'd like to make another, similar block. I'm looking for tips to help prevent the carefully-cut, narrow grooves from becoming clogged with glue when one glues the face-plate on at step 3.

A:

Volfram K's suggestion will probably get the best results (and cause the most work): Cut a couple of wood strips 3.95mm thick. Or just slightly thinner than the knife grooves so they still fit when you cover them in something like packing tape so the glue doesn't stick to them.
You could try to stuff something else in there which doesn't adhere to the glue but I can't think of anything right now which doesn't stick, is easy to make in the right thickness and won't rip apart when pulling it out...
Personally I wouldn't actually worry about it too much. Just don't use more glue than you need and the squeezeout should be minimal. Afterwards, clean up the first couple of cm with a chisel (if you have one that is small enough to get in there) or a knife. You wont be able to see more than the first few cm and knives usually taper, so fit also shouldn't be a problem.
You could also glue, clamp, and then immediately remove the excess or spread it inside so it doesn't matter. Or cut a chamfer on the edges of the groves (not all the way to the top, so it wont be visible) which can take some of the glue.
Or make some sort of tongue and grove joint and only glue these so you don't get squeezeout in the knife grooves (requires higher precision because you don't have any glue filling small gaps).
Just don't use an excessive amount of glue and you should be fine.

