Q:

prevent wood bending when glue is applied

I'm trying to make floor tiles which should look similar to attached picture.
I sliced a wood about 6mm thick and wanted to glue them to the mdf base.
However when I put PVA glue on a wood slices, they bent. Corners of slices raised from a base from 3 to 7 mm. Bending is really huge and caused by the moisture of glue. So with such a deformation gluing is not possible at all. I tried to straighten slices with a board on top of them and clamps but only crack a couple of them.
So the question is how to prevent wood bending? or is there other way to attach slices to a base?
Thanks.
PS: as mentioned in comments, each tile is supposed to be a rectangular about 800x400mm, these sizes could vary. Slices (open grain pieces) are going to have width about 60-85mm (85 is the capability of a saw) and length 60-100mm.

A:

With thicker blocks you could use PVA but don't, it's the wrong sort of adhesive for the application*. Whatever glue you pick must be completely waterproof — these are fairly thin end-grain blocks you're attaching, so will be extremely permeable to water (basically like sponges).
You could I suppose use mastic or construction adhesive but there are numerous purpose-made flooring adhesives and some will be suitable. 
This type of thing used to be done using bitumen or a bitumen-based adhesive and they are still considered a great choice by some pros, but I'm not sure if they'd be available where you are. However they are still made and available from the right suppliers, in Europe at least.
In theory at least you could use epoxy for this, as epoxies don't contain any water they don't cause wood to swell. However it will work out very expensive if you have a large area to cover. And if it matters, the cured adhesive is so strong it could make removal of the flooring at some point down the line a real nightmare. Even cleaning excess adhesive out from the grout lines could prove a real challenge!

*No gap-filling ability, to allow for irregularities in the sub-floor or the wooden blocks themselves. Many simply won't be waterproof enough. They don't bond end grain well without prior preparation so would add hugely to the effort needed to complete the project (every block would have to have glue spread on it twice).

