Q:

How do you make mortise and tenon joints using power tools?

There is already a question about making mortise and tenon joints using hand tools. It would be nice to also catalog the various ways of making mortise and tenon joints using power tools. Wherever a jig is required for safety or quality of fit, please also include a photo or link to the type of jig mentioned.

A:

Copying my answer from the 'by hand' question.
The mortise as the other have mentioned can be done with a hammer and chisel, and drilling consecutive holes to the correct depth will help speed the process up.  
If you have a drill press that will make the job easier and you can be very accurate on how deep you drill all the holes.  If you are using power drill, you might want a collar for the drill bit for depth.
Here's an article for step by step directions with pictures for the mortise.

If you have a little extra money to spend you can buy and actual mortising machine, it drills square holes. It has a drill bit with 4 chisels surrounding it.

Cutting the tenon.  There are many different ways to do this.
Of course there is the handsaw, routers etc.  You can also use a table saw.
The table saw can be used several different ways, the easiest would be if you have a Dado blade so you can run the pieces flat across the saw table.
You can do it without the dado as well, just make a bunch of cuts and then clean them up with a chisel.  At the very least you can cut the shoulders of the tenon on the table saw, giving you an nice square cut to work with.
There are also tenoning jigs for the table saw which you cut the face of the tenon with one pass, so a full tenon would be 4 passes.  Kind of like this:

A:

Long mortises and tenons, like the following, are probably best created with a hand router and a table saw.

Mortise
For the mortise, you will need

A jig or brace to ensure a straight path for your router.

A straight router bit with a flat blade on the top will provide the necessary cut. However, a spiral-fluted bit will make the cut easier.
Obviously, make sure the diameter is less than or equal to the width of your mortise. If it's less then you'll have to adjust your jig or set up a second one corresponding to each edge.

from rockler.com

The router will leave rounded edges to the mortise. In order to square them up, you'll have to use a hand tool like a chisel.

Image from acornhouseworkshop.com
Tenon
As mentioned in other answers, a matching long tenon can be made with a table saw, a dado blade, and a tenoning jig.

A:

To make the mortise, you can get a dedicated mortising machine:
Image courtesy of Harbor Freight
You can also get a mortising attachment for your drill press:
Image courtesy of LowesNote: Some people feel that these attachments require too much force be applied to the quill and handle of your drill press. I've used my attachment on a bench-top drill press a few times and don't recall any excessive amounts of pressure. If you're making a lot of mortises, you'll probably want to invest in a dedicated mortising machine anyway.
Either machine uses a mortising chisel to cut a square hole:
Image courtesy of Lee Valley
The tenons can be cut on a table saw using a tenoning jig. Here is a commercially available one:
Image courtesy of woodgears.ca
And here is a shop built version:
Image courtesy Wood Magazine. Image links to the instructions to build it.No particular endorsement, that's the first shop-built one Google coughed up

