Q:

LED Lights for the Woodworking Workshop

This question might be stretching the scope of this SE, but it's woodworking-related so I'll go with it.
I'll be purchasing a home sometime soon and will finally have a garage space all to myself for woodworking (cue celebratory dancing).
Previous shops (owned by my father) used some combination of incandescent or fluorescent bulbs for lighting, along with natural light coming from the windows.  As far as I could tell, the color rendition was fine, or at least acceptable with these options, and they gave enough light to work.
Some of the LED options I've seen include more lightbulb-size lights, light tubes along the lines of fluorescents,  and wall strips.  Color warmths vary.  I've only used LEDs for smaller lighting fixtures in the home (60 watt equivalent fixtures).
How do LED lights compare to incandescent and fluorescent lights in the home workshop?  Assume the workshop isn't heated, if that makes a difference.  Also, there will only be a couple windows (assume I'll keep the garage door closed).

A:

Specs are on line: you can do your own comparisons. Factors to consider:
Brightness. A fair comparison would be between lamps delivering about the same number of lumens.
Color temperature. Lower is, paradoxically, what we call "warmer color" -- more red, less blue, similar to incandescent, and higher color temp is "cooler" coloring with a shift toward blue. Which is "better" depends on where your work will be viewed, plus personal preference; the same issue exists between warm and cool white fluorescents.
Color accuracy score. Fluorescents tend to have strong light at specific color ranges, and can mislead you about how colors will balance when you leave the shop and get more varied/natural lighting. I believe both LEDs and incandescent generally score better here.
Efficiency. LEDs win hands down for lumens per watt, commonly about twice as efficient as modern  fluorescents and six times as efficient as incandescent.
Maintainability. LEDs last longest without attention, and unlike fluorescents the don't lose some of their life every time you turn them off and on. LEDs can last so long, in fact, that some fixtures are designed to be discarded and replaced after many years of service rather than being re-lamped.  That offends my sense of waste, but it can be cheaper to buy one of these than to buy the corresponding number of LED retrofit tubes and plug them into a traditional shop light. I'm currently struggling with exactly that decision.

A:

For the many decades when incandescent was primary option for interior lighting, there was really only one color option - incandescent. Generally that fell into the Soft White color range around 2700K.
CFL and LED lights introduced color temperature to the masses, and now you can find temperature ranges from 2700K - 6500K. Those range from the traditional Soft White incandescent interior lighting (2700K) to bright daylight at the 6500K range. There's a quick write-up at BatteriesPlus (of all places) with some pictures to help show the difference. Another good indication of the differences is visible on the road at night. The traditional sealed-beam headlight used exclusively in the US prior to the mid-80s is very warm. The halogen bulb (now the base lighting used) was very blue by comparison. The HID or Xenon bulbs now becoming common are even more blue (generally 5-6000K) and are actually more daylight colored, and make halogen bulbs look yellow by comparison. (The pink/purple color you see in some lights is due to ratings above 6000K. I've seen aftermarket HID bulbs in the 8000-12000K range.)
The color rendition you saw in your dad's shop would be somewhere in between based on the amount of natural v artificial light that was hitting the particular area you were working in. For doing photography of your finished works, the color temperature would be important. For general wood working, I doubt it would matter much so long as you have enough light to see by (see my beef at the end). If you're doing finishing work, it could matter based on the color temp of the final resting place of your project.
Now that the CFL & LED bulbs are coming down in price quite nicely, you can buy a few in different temperatures and put them in different areas of your shop to see which you like best, then replace everything with that temperature. In regards to my note above about finishing, you could, if you wanted to get super fancy, install more than one set of fixtures and have different color temp bulbs in each set - then, when you're doing your finishing, you could flip on the lights appropriate to the expected final destination of the piece to ensure the color came out as expected. Some may consider that overkill.
As a side note, my biggest beef with the CFLs is the amount of light (lumens) they put out. The packaging claims that a (random) 4w CFL is the equivalent of a 60w incandescent, but if you check the lumen rating for the CFL v claimed incandescent equivalent you'll see there are significant differences. The LED bulbs seem to have a more similar lumen rating for the incandescent equivalent they claim. 

