Q:

How do I ensure my drill is perfectly vertical before cutting a hole in my desk?

I want to cut a hole in my desk (3/4" furniture grade plywood with an oak veneer) to run cables through. I'll be using a hole saw and my cordless drill. Since this is going to be very visible, I want to be sure that the hole is perfectly vertical, and that I get it right on the first try.
How can I ensure that the drill is angled correctly? Should I even be trying this with a hand-held drill? If not, what tools should I think about using?

A:

I saw a video online, that suggested a simple jig that will allow you to drill straight into a relatively flat surface.
Take a piece of stock that is square. From the end of the stock, cut a wedge section that is 90° in the wedge (the left inner face should be 90° from the right inner face) and the wedge vertex (the line in the middle of the removed area), should also be 90° from the bottom face of the block.
Place the jig flat against the surface you want to drill, snug the drill bit up to the inner corner (the cut out area), and drill away.
You may need to make several of these to accommodate different sized bits.
To allow for a forstner bit, cut a section from the bottom of the jig (see the side view image) allowing just enough clearance for the bit.
It is possible to make this jig with the vertex at a different angle. You can make the jig as above to get a perfectly square reference. Then run the bottom plane of the jig through a table saw (or whatever you have that will work) to shave an angled wedge from the bottom.

The notch has been removed in the side view to allow for a forstner (or similar) bit to have clearance.

A:

In two words: Pilot hole
If you have a drill with the handy leveling bubble, this can be handy. Otherwise line up your drill bit using something akin to a speed square or carpenters square (checking more than 1 axis), then drill your pilot hole. Not only is the pilot hole beneficial, but I find it makes your accustomed to what arrangement/direction you will be drilling.
This will help most if you are using the kind of pilot hole with a center drill bit that protrudes from the barrel/shank.
Otherwise, they do make a jig of sorts that bolts to your handheld drill and provides a guide and baseplate. The creates a pseudo drill press-like device.

A:

A drill guide will help you maintain the required angle, in your case, 90 degrees perpendicular to the desk. These are readily available at your local home improvement or tool store.
Drill Guide http://www.homedepot.com/catalog/productImages/400/05/05534eb7-0230-4b1d-9f68-f9297f412a6f_400.jpg

