Q:

Why does the blade of a sliding T-bevel have a point?

Does anyone have a good reference for the reason a typical wood or metal sliding T-bevel comes to a point?
I've always wondered, and recently this tool came up in a semi-famous YouTube video, which rekindled my curiosity. I asked in the YT comments, and someone suggested the point would not be in the way when taking inside measurements, but this seems a reach, as the point angle is fixed.
Some basic searching did not come up with anything concrete, and my venerable Encyclopedia of Woodworking Handtools does not mention the point.
My only poor theory is that the bevel on the point nests nicely inside the stock, so this might be a way to make the bevel a handy straight-edge. (Except mine is is a terrible straight-edge!) Or  just so it seats nicely and locks into position for safety of the user and to protect the tool in a toolbox or drawer.
I also saw one reference to the point being handy for marking, which seems like a terrible idea (and another reference specifically called out making sure the edge of the point on a smaller version was dull for safety in a pocket).
Since the bevel along the short edge of the blade itself is some known angle (typically 45 deg.), I suppose there might be marking out techniques (saw, dovetails or similar) where the bottom of the point bevel would be parallel to some reference, useful for squarely marking out the bottom of the waste. Though, given that tails and pins would often be cut at completely different angles from that bevel angle I can't rationalize that, either.
Regardless, all my searches, if they mention the point at all, are inconclusive.
Does anyone know, either from actually using it for a specific reason, or by citing a reliable source?

A:

An alternate answer!
While reading "A Little Book of Woodworking Joints" I ran across this figure:

The chapter on "Simple Dovetailing" has this to say about Fig. 20:

A very good method of setting the bevel is to obtain a piece of board
and set up a square line as shown in Fig. 20, and mark off six units —
size 1/2 in., say — and then to the left or right along the edge mark
off one unit, then drawing the splay line shown, give a line so that
setting a bevel to it as shown makes the inclination — or angle — of
the blade with the stock 6 to 1, which is probably about the best
angle for dovetailing.

To my eye, the sharp angle on the bevel makes it very easy to set the dovetail angle in this manner to a known value by using a shop standard gauge of some sort.
A square end would work, but it wouldn't be as easy to read (in my opinion) and other shapes (a reverse angle, rounded) would make this sort of the bevel-setting impossible.

