Q:

Are oils sufficient for the last step of finishing?

So I have stained and oiled my project (well... oiling is ongoing right now for me buts lets pretend!). Is that it? Am I done? Assuming it is fully cured my project is complete? This is not a question of appearance or aesthetics as that is subjective. More of can the oil survive as the outer finish.
Most of the projects I work on just use white wood, like pine, and the odd one I get lucky with an oak pallet. I don't know if the wood in use matters. Can oiling be the final step in finishing a project or do I need to throw a coat of varnish, or some other finish, on it?
The pictures in this answer show some works with just oil and other with oil and varnish or lacquer. That suggest is could work if I just leave the oil. 
If I leave the oil and pass of the project to another person for their use can they get away with not oiling it themselves? This is not a butcher block or bread board but a piece of furniture. Any other implications to consider beyond that? 

A:

Can oiling be the final step in finishing a project or do I need to throw a coat of varnish, or some other finish, on it?

This is a subjective question. Obviously oiling alone is fine for some woodworkers, but it's not for others for reasons that go beyond practical considerations of expected use for the piece in question — aesthetics being such an important factor for some people. 
Can be? Yes, most definitely. 
Is it enough to finish a project? Depends on the user and the project. 
On a purely practical level, if you need decent waterproofing then oil alone doesn't fulfil the requirements (even a fully-developed oil finish adds surprisingly little water-resistance to wood).

If I leave the oil and pass of the project to another person for their use can they get away with not oiling it themselves? 

Yes. Broadly speaking, assuming they take care of it in certain ways, e.g. by using paste wax or another type of furniture polish every now and then (even once a year is better than nothing).
Because oiled finishes are in the wood and not on the wood the wood in question is quite important. A very hard wood like oak when oiled holds up much better over time than pine with just oil on it, to get something of the same durability on a softwood you'd generally need to use a film-building finish, e.g. varnish or lacquer, as your topcoat.

