Q:

Practical indicators that my surface is ready for another coat of Tung Oil

Taking into account that different "Tung Oil" products take from a few hours to eternity to cure. Some say it never cures… Given the fact that curing is not drying… Being aware that some "Tung Oil" products don't even have Tung Oil in them…
I'm lost.
What practical indicators can I rely on to determine when my surface is ready for the next coat? Should I await it to dry or cure? Are there any straightforward tests, such as pushing the wood with a nail and observing if excess oil seeps out, that I can employ to gauge its readiness?
I'm asking because with my "Pure Tung Oil" even after following the instructions on the can, after 24 (in fact, even after 48+ hours) it is still oily and I am kind of unsure if I should really wait longer (or maybe help it dry with a fan) between the coats, or I am good to go.

A:

I've used mainly BLO as a wood-finishing oil but I've also compared various other slower-drying oils periodically, basically to see how they stacked up to BLO. And in all cases, there was no absolute indicator that the surface was 'ready' for the next coat — to be perfectly honest often the surface looks and feels no different to when the preceding coat was first applied!

What practical indicators can I rely on to determine when my surface is ready for the next coat?

So as per the above, and sorry, but there may not really be anything concrete.
Because no pure oil actually cures in the interval between coats, what we're waiting for is enough time for the oil already applied to be absorbed more fully, and for the stuff nearest the surface to have cured enough1. This difference to the just-finished surface can be subtle enough that it's really only noticeable when you start oiling.
But despite some variability the surface should absolutely not feel greasy. Slick perhaps (usually not after only one coat) but not oily, much less transfer any oil to the skin......

after 24 (in fact, even after 48+ hours) it is still oily

From this and what you subsequently said in the Comments it is clear that your application procedure wasn't fully correct in the final stage, the wiping off.
As I expected, the application guidelines Borma Wachs provide for their tung oil don't strongly emphasise how rigorously users should remove excess oil the way they should..... as unfortunately most (almost all?) guidelines don't!
But with ANY oil you must remove ALL excess2. This requires dedicated, hard rubbing, and depending on species possibly a return to the wood over the next 12 hours or so to wipe away any excess that has weeped back onto the surface.

1 Which is not to say cured, as this takes weeks to months depending on variables.
2 All natural oils, even the best driers, cure to at best a semi-solid. What this means practically in a finishing context is that if you leave any on the surface (as distinct from absorbed into the surface) you will have a thin layer of that semi-solid on the wood after curing has progressed far enough. This will feel "draggy" or "gummy", or be noticeably sticky, very much not what we're going for.

