Q:

Is stain an acceptable final finish?

I am planning to put wood beams on my tall ceilings and I don't have much time to do both a stain AND a finish on the beams. If I just stain the beams, will this be acceptable? Or do I have to coat it with a clear finish as well? Or is there a better solution to stain the wood that will also keep it protected? Unlike furniture, these will not be touched very often, if ever, so I'm not worried about protecting them from dings.
NOTE: The wood beams will not be solid beams. I will be using solid wood planks and joining them with a special router bit. Also, the temperature that the stain/finish would be exposed to during the drying time may be around 45°F (~7°C). 

A:

It depends on what you mean by stain.
Unfortunately the finishing world is full of proprietary product names, irregular use of similar/the same words, and to be plain, sometimes deliberately misleading terminology*.
Stain conventionally refers to a product that colours the wood and nothing else. 
Today however many products that use the word stain in the name are coloured finishes (possibly the best known being "gel stain" which is a jellied coloured varnish).
If you're planning on using one of the latter then yes you can use it as a standalone finish. If you were planning on using the former then no, it's not advisable.

Also, the temperature that the stain/finish would be exposed to during the drying time may be around 45°F (~7°C). 

This is a bit low for a lot of products used in wood finishing. Many different products quote a minimum figure of 50°F or 10°C during application and when drying, and ideally higher.
45°F is not excessively low though, so instead of preventing proper drying it could mean only that you can expect extended drying periods (e.g. 4-5 days instead of 1-2). It's important to note though that some product simply won't dry properly when applied in colder conditions.
So obviously the exact product you eventually go with will make all the difference here — check product literature for guidance and if in any doubt do a test in the finished setting on a scrap of the project wood, and be guided by the results. 

*The infamous "Tung Oil Finish" is perhaps the best example of this, since it contains no tung oil and never has. Other choice ones include "feed and wax" (wood doesn't need 'feeding'), "Danish oil" (not made from Danish people) and "teak oil" (not made from teak and not specifically intended for finishing only teak).

A:

Stain is not the same as a finish, so on the surface the answer to your question, "Is stain an acceptable final finish?" is "no."
However, I would challenge the whole assumption that you need a finish at all here.  As I see it, finishes serve two purposes: to protect the wood (from physical damage, chemical discolorations, and UV) and to alter its appearance (sheen, luster, coloration).
Since this is in a location where it will never be touched, never have any water or other chemicals on it, and never exposed to the elements I don't see why it would need protection from anything.  And if the stain gets you the look you want there's no need to do anything else to change the appearance.

