Q:

What are some safe finishes for indoor projects likely to be chewed on by a young child or infant?

I'm going to be putting together a crib for over the next few months for our first child.  I found a blog that mentions shellac.  Only, it doesn't exactly say that shellac is safe, only that it is safer than polyurethane.
My question is whether shellac is, in fact, safe and what are some other options?
I'm also curious about whether it is important to finish the crib at all.  What are the downsides to just leaving it as sanded lumber?  Is this just an aesthetic concern?

A:

Per @ratchet-freak's suggestion, I looked up "food-safe finishes".
Options include:

Pure tung oil. Extracted from the nut of the china wood tree. Used as
a base in many blended finishes. Available from catalogs and hardware
stores. Difficult to apply, requires many coats, good
water-resistance. 
Raw linseed oil. Pressed from flax seeds. Not to be
confused with boiled linseed, which contains metallic driers. Listed
as a food additive by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Very
long curing time, good looks, low water-resistance, frequent
reapplication. 
Mineral oil. Although derived from petroleum, it is
colorless, odorless, tasteless and entirely inert. Sold as a laxative
in drug stores and as a wood finish in hardware and kitchen-supply
stores. Simple to apply, low waterresistance, frequent reapplication.   
Walnut oil. Pressed from the nuts of the walnut tree. Sold as a salad
oil in health food stores and in large grocery stores. Walnut oil
dries and won't go rancid. Easy to apply, frequent reapplication.
Beeswax. The work of the honey bee. Can be mixed with an oil to
create a better-smelling, slightly more waterrepellent finish. Sold
in woodworking and turning catalogs.
Carnauba wax. Derived from the
Brazilian palm tree. Harder than beeswax and more water-resistant.
Can be used straight on woodenware as a light protective coating or a
topcoat polish. Sold in woodworking and turning catalogs.
Shellac. A
secretion from the lac bug. Harvested in India. Super blond shellac
in flake form is the most waterresistant variety. A film-forming
finish. Sold in woodworking catalogs and hardware and art supply
stores.

A:

I would say shellac.  It's heavily used in the pharmaceutical industry to coat pills.  It's an excellent all around finish, but it not's incredibly durable.  My next choice would be mineral oil and bee's wax.  You really can't go wrong with either of these choices.  

A:

Some unfinished woods can be toxic: http://www.wood-database.com/wood-articles/wood-allergies-and-toxicity.
Any commercially available finish will have a publicly available material safety data sheet. Just google "finish MSDS."
Bob Flexner devotes a section of Understanding Wood Finishing to food grade finishes. According to him, these "salad bowl finishes" are generally just varnish. Check out the book, it's an excellent reference.

