Q:

How to join two parallel sheets of wood together

I have a desk which looks like this:

I have decided to take some steps to fix it. This includes creating a way to manage the dozens of wires that form part of the work from home setup.
I am going to buy a wooden board (MDF or chipwood) which is a bit smaller than the long panel on the back of the desk. I shall put screws into it to mount extension leads and also stick the ethernet switch, wifi extender, usb hubs, laptop charger, monitor psu and many other things to this sheet of wood. At the end, this wooden sheet shall have to be attached to the back panel of this desk on the side facing the wall.
Now to the question. How do I stick the new sheet of wood to the back panel of this desk? Use only wood glue? Use bolt and nut? Use simple wood screws or something else? The back panel is obviously not very thick. If I use screws, it might drill through the new wooden sheet and back out of the back panel. I don't know if this is bad. As for nut and bolts, don't know if the chipwood will get damaged by them. As for glue, I don't want to make this a permanent bond.

A:

I presume that you're attaching your new panel to the vertical "modesty panel" that's under the desk surface.
You could use glue, but any sort of woodworker's glue wouldn't hold very well on the smooth melamine (or metal) surface of the modesty panel. Construction adhesive (if it's indicated for use on metal) would probably work OK should you choose to go that route. Ideally, you'd want to use a contact cement to adhere to the melamine coating that's already on the desk. Using contact cement and making it fit properly and creating a strong bond would be very difficult (even if you take the modesty panel off and work on it on a bench), so it's a good thing you don't want to go down this path.
With glue out, you have a couple of options left:

Screws.

Drill a clearance pilot hole through the modesty panel. This will be larger than the diameter of the screw threads.
Drill a pilot hole into your new panel. This will be about the size of the shaft between the threads
Using screws of a length that won't penetrate the surface, screw through the modesty panel into the new panel.
You'd want to use a screw with a flat bottomed head (so it doesn't try to countersink itself), and I'd suggest a washer under the screw head, especially if the modesty panel is a thin material.

Through bolts.

Drill clearance holes through both the modesty panel and the new panel.
Put the bolt through a washer, through both holes, through another washer on the back side, and thread on a nut.
Tighten.
I'd suggest that you'll want the bolt heads on the new panel side. This will give you a smooth surface where your knees are and leave the end of the bolt sticking out toward the wall. This will prevent you from ever jamming your kneed into an exposed bolt or catching your pants on it, potentially tearing your pants.

If you're certain that you want to use MDF/chipboard/particle board, then through bolts are actually a better option. Generally, screws don't hold well in these types of materials, even if you do get the right kind of screws.
If you choose, instead to use plywood, you can use any sort of wood screw to hold this together, and it will probably be a much easier process.
No matter which attachment method you choose to use, I'd suggest that your work and work conditions will be better if you remove the modesty panel from the desk and put it on a horizontal surface to work on it. Note that the horizontal surface could be the desk itself!

You won't be cramped working under the desk.
You won't be fighting gravity trying to hold the new panel up on the modesty panel while doing all the drilling.
You'll have plenty of light and visibility.
You can simply have a friend squeeze the two pieces together as a "clamp" if you don't have any other sort of clamping option.
You'll be able to comfortably lay out all your screws, hooks, hangars and other attachments while it's horizontal, and you'll be able to either put all those attachments in place or, at least, drill pilot holes for them all so your work time under the desk is minimized.

