Q:

Pneumatic vs Electric Brad Nail Gun

I do wood projects from time to time around my house. I can see there are many Pneumatic based brad nailers available. I am thinking to avoid buying and adding a compressor to my Garage. 
I prefer to buy an electrical brad nailer such as this one:
Stanley TRE550 Electric Staple/Brad Nail Gun 
http://amzn.com/B000BPSUTM
Or this one:
Ryobi 18-Volt ONE+ AirStrike Brad Nailer Kit
http://www.homedepot.com/p/Ryobi-18-Volt-ONE-AirStrike-Brad-Nailer-Kit-P854/205337057
The electrical nailers have lower overall cost and seem to be easier to handle.
What are the disadvantages to having a non-compressor Brad Nailer? 

A:

I wasn't satisfied with the electric nailer I bought, which barely worked on soft pine. A better alternative for me was a gas nailer. Paslode, Hitachi and other gas nailers ignite a small charge of fuel to drive the nail and have vastly greater impact than an electric nailer, plus no hose to struggle with. However, gas nailers use a proprietary rechargeable battery to ignite the gas and a proprietary replaceable fuel source to supply the gas; so these must be available in your area for the tool to be of any use to you. If they are, if your budget can handle it, and you are looking at projects with more than a few hours of nailing to do, it might serve you well.
Conversely, if you use non-woodworking tools much, especially on cars, investing in a pneumatic system might be worthwhile.
Wear ear protection.

A:

Having used both, I can definitively say this. An air brand nailer/pinner, is quick, powerful and often just the right tool. Sometimes it does suffer from being corded.
My electric brad nailer is a bit slow between shots compared to an air variety, but is not hindered in angle or length to the compressor, but it is a fair bit heavier and bulkier (in most cases).
However, when quarters are not too tight at the face (not like a small box or wooden toy) and you have a lot of ground to cover, like installing floor or ceiling trim, the electric brad nailer wins hands down.
I highly suggest put one of each in your hand, and ask yourself, for my projects, would any of these cons be a hindrance to my project, or the pro's offset them.

