Q:

Can you store a synthetic waterstone in water permanently?

Can you store a synthetic waterstone permanently in water? Will it degrade the stone?
When I was last doing woodwork classes the school had a water cooled rotary grind stone/wheel, and I remember that it was important to remove the water resevoir after use and let the stone drip dry for a few minutes while still turning. Some past student had left the water on, and the half of the stone in the water had swollen unevenly, making the whole grinding wheel asymmetric. Could something similar happen to a modern, flat waterstone?
Most waterstones need to be soaked in water for between 5 and 15 minutes before use. But I've seen a video where the demonstrator just seems to splash 2 or 3 handfuls of water over his stones (but I suspect because he sharpens many times a day they would get plenty of water).
For context (although I'm not sure it's important) My shed/workshop doesn't have running water. I can tote a big bottle of water down there, it would be easiest to simply store the stone in a clip-lock plastic box.

A:

My personal experience leads me to say yes you can. I've been storing my waterstones in a plastic tote just as you mentioned for 10+ years now and there have been no issues of swelling or degradation. But that may not be the case for all waterstones as there are a variety of them available including different materials and, of course, grit. The main thing I've had to deal with is nasty smelling water. I've mitigated that by using distilled water and adding a tablespoon of bleach every now and then.
First recommendation is to check if the manufacturer of your stones provides storage recommendations. If they don't, see if a similar manufacturer does (compare similar grits and composition). If you're paying reasonable prices (subjective) then you're probably using synthetic stones. Most sources seem to make a distinction between coarse and medium grit being ok to store submerged while keeping the finer grits (often called finishing stones) stored dry and wetted somewhere between 10 and 20 mins before sharpening.

