Q:

How can I accurately cross-cut a board that is too wide for my table saw?

I have some 0.75" x 14" wide boards that I'm trying cut to lengths in the 50-60" range. It's important that the cuts be precise, and true.
However, 14" is too wide for any of my sleds or miter slides on my table saw. I'm having a very difficult time cutting these.
The closest I've got so far is to attach the miter slide to the board and slide it through. The problem is it's 1) very difficult to position the edge of the blade at the cut line while also positioning the board on the slide, and 2) at the start of the cut the slide is barely in the track, maybe a half inch or so, and it doesn't stabilize until it's about 6" in, so it's extremely difficult to keep the cut straight (this also makes problem #1 even harder):

(That drawing is not really to scale but hopefully it is clear.)
The right edge of that board isn't actually straight, so I couldn't put, say, a fence over there.
I also tried building a really long sled but I haven't been able to make anything satisfactory, esp. having problems making long straight slides that are smooth in the tracks, and making it strong enough to support the piece. So far either that seems to be an impossible task, or I don't have the skill for it, or a combination of both.
What are my options? I don't mind building other sleds, I'm just... not sure what to do.
Note that it is not the 50-60" length that is the problem, it is the 14" width that is the problem in relation to the front-to-back size of my table saw.

A:

This is something that I would not want to cross cut on the table saw in this case. If you had a sliding panel saw, you could but not in this case. This is a perfect scenario for a track saw. 
As I am assuming you do not own one, or you would have already used it, you can make your own straight edge for a normal circular saw fairly easily. 
If it were me, I would cut it close with a jigsaw, and then use a straight edge, and a flush trim bit on a router to get it exact

A:

For just a few cuts, a handsaw, properly sharpened, is way faster than fooling around with jigs or fences. A 3/4 inch board will cross cut at about one inch per stroke....Do the math.

A:

I use a track saw for all cuts like this.  I have the Festool, but the Dewalt or Makita ones work well also, or you can make a DIY version of one with some 1/2" plywood and a circular saw.
I place the plywood on a sheet of foam insulation on the ground so it is supported on both sides of the cut.  Much easier than trying to manhandle large sheets of plywood or MDF, and quite accurate as well.  I use the Seneca Parallel Guides for making repeat cuts.  
I like this so much that I cut down the fence on my Unisaw from 52" to 34" since I never use the table saw for sheet goods any more.

