Q:

How to remove a table saw blade held in with a hex nut and Allen bolt?

The saw disc on my KDR 103 N tablesaw looks like this:

As you can hopefully see, there is a big hexagonal nut. Inside there is an Allen bolt opening.
Inside of this Allen bolt is something surprisingly resembling yet another, smaller, Allen bolt opening.

What is the purpose of this bolt?
I cannot turn the hex nut even when using a lever on the wrench. Likewise, the Allen bolt seems to be at least very hard to unfasten. I haven't used force on it yet.

Furthermore, the Allen bolt is not even in the schematic.

A:

I don't know for certain what you're seeing, so take the first part of this answer as a hypothesis, not as definitive.
First, I don't think there is any hex screw, as such.  I think someone has bored out the end of the orginal arbor, and broached a hex recess into it, probably, as suggested by commenter @Freeman, to use as an arbor lock when removing the blade retention nut.  I have no idea what the torx shaped recess in the metal at the bottom of the hex recess is about.   It's off-center, badly machined, and brazed.   Some kind of poorly executed hack related to the hex recess, but I don't know what the intention was.
I am reasonably confident though, that the hex recess is in the actual arbor, and not an extraneous screw, because the the blade flange and retention nut appear to be original, and the arbor would actually extend roughly as far as the picture shows beyond a properly installed blade, flange and nut.   Some evidence of the shenanigans the hacker got up to is apparent in the picture.   There are horizontal file marks on the arbor end, e.g., and the hex recess shows clear deformation at the corners.  One suspects that the process of broaching the recess raised burrs on the arbor end, and the hacker filed them off.   A machined shaft end would not contain horizontal machining marks, but, if any, circular concentric marks from facing off on a lathe.
As for removing the blade retention nut, I would take this as a typical frozen nut problem.   Your tools for getting it loose are penetrating lubricant, heat, and high-impulse torque (impact, in other words).  First, as suggested by @Graphus, do be certain you're loosening in the proper direction (clockwise as you face the arbor end, in the case of your particular saw).    Second, immobilize the arbor as firmly as you can (you must already have done this in your attempts to loosen the nut).   I would then try impact.    If you can get an impact driver on the nut, do that.   Otherwise, use a well fitted box-end wrench and a large diameter punch.    Put the wrench on the nut, and use a hammer and the punch to apply sharp blows to the wrench 5 or so centimeters from the arbor center.   This should release the nut.   If it doesn't apply mild heat using a gas torch, as much as possible to the nut only (be sure to thoroughly clean away flammable sawdust and other materials first, of course).    Then try the impact again.   If still no love, heat again, and apply a penetrating lubricant after heating the nut to the shaft.   Wait and try impact again.
If all these methods fail, then I'd get a die grinder (dremel will do fine), and grind a slot in the nut to split it.   Open the slot with a cold chisel, but apply the splitting force parallel to the arbor shaft, not perpendicular.   You don't want to hose your bearings, or put runout into the arbor.

A:

It turns out the solution was to rotate the Allen bolt in a clockwise direction.
I found the solution by following @WalnutClose's awesome "frozen nut escalation ladder". I got to the point where I tried several different lubricants and the one that did the trick was something that I don't know how to translate. In Slovak it is 'petrolej', which is machine translated to 'coal oil' or 'kerosine'.
When the nut finally gave way, I realized that it has no threads at all and that I just indirectly unfastened the Allen bolt, by unfastening the nut.

