Q:

Advice for repairing thin fragile, irreplaceable Pella window trim pieces

Seeking advice for the repair of two identical (mirror image) trim pieces from the base of Pella casement windows. Each piece is cracked through its thinnest portion, which is only about 1/4" thick or less. I'm concerned that gluing and clamping will not be sufficient for a lasting, durable fix.

These are specialized pieces that are nearly 30 years old and not made anymore, with intricate cutouts and machined sections and so are effectively irreplaceable.
In the past I've fixed stuff like this by drilling a small hole and gluing in a dowel to join the two pieces (as well as gluing the broken seam). In this case that would require extremely precise drilling through thin, irregular sections and the dowel could barely be more than toothpick-sized.
Is there some kind of fiberglass tape I can glue or epoxy to the non-visible underside of the seam? Open to other ideas.
Complicating matters is that the inner workings of the casement window mechanism tend to push out on the inside of these wooden pieces in such a way that almost certainly led to their failure over time. Also one of the pieces looks to be water damaged, and could be more brittle as a result.
These trim pieces were breaking or broken when we bought the house about a year ago (along with the crank mechanisms, which have been fixed) -- we're not going to replace the windows and we can't find new trim pieces, so we're going to have to do our best to patch them up.
Any advice from the community would be most welcome! Also happy to provide more info as will be helpful in suggesting an approach.

A:

If gluing is your only reasonable choice (which is to say, you can't make replacement pieces yourself, and you don't care to spend the many dollars having them custom made would cost), then I would suggest that you build a jig to immobilize the pieces in their proper configuration.   Hardboard, double-sided tape, and masking tape should be sufficient to create such a jig.   Once you can immobilize them in a configuration that satisfies you, I'd tack them together with small areas glued using CA glue (superglue).   Finally, once they are secure, I'd remove enough of the fixture to have clear access to the joints from both sides, and finish the repair with a good epoxy that is thin enough to infiltrate the joint thoroughly.   You can dam one side of the joint using hot melt glue, or a putty, to make getting the epoxy to stay in the joint easier.  Note that you can clean the epoxy you will inevitably get all over the piece doing this once the epoxy is semi-set using alcohol or acetone (edited to change this from warm water).
We commonly use techniques like this in restoring old furniture pieces.   The key is in getting adequate strength in the initial immobilization, to be able to work the repair safely.

