Q:

Do I need to worry about wood dust for very small-scale manual sanding?

I have recently discovered carving as a very relaxing and pleasant hobby. From small branches of wood I whittle hair-sticks with interesting shapes (the kind of object you use to put long hair up) with small knives and use sandpaper (by hand) of various grits to even out the shape, make the surface smoother and shinier. I like to do the sanding outside, but I do it in my living room sometimes.
I was never concerned about the safety of using sandpaper (at least manually) until I stumbled upon the subject somewhere on the web. Virtually everybody recommends using dust masks when sanding wood, but it seems that people generally refer to using power tools on large-ish things like pieces of furniture..?
I am generally very (and sometimes over-)concerned about my health. On the one hand the amount of dust generated by finishing hair sticks seems very much insignificant compared to what kinds or techniques of woodworking are commonly assumed, but on the other what do I know, really! I have been uneasy working on the sticks since I read all the horror stories.
So my question is, should I still wear a dust mask - or are my lungs damaged more by walking by a busy street for five minutes?

A:

It's a question of degree.
Extensive sanding, especially by machine, puts a lot of fine wood dust into the air for extended periods. Even with dust collection,  in that environment a dust mask is a very good idea.
If you're doing small amounts of sanding by hand, the exposure is much less and the body is more able to deal with it it. You might still want to consider an inexpensive mask as cheap insurance, but I wouldn't consider it necessary. 
I happen to already have a decent cartridge-style respirator, but for what you describe I probably wouldn't bother with it... even thjough, since I have it on hand, it does sometimes get used for lower-hazard tasks.
One caution: some woods are more toxic than others, and some can cause serious allergic-style reactions in some people. Sanding is one of the stronger local skin exposures, so if you are going to react to something this may be when it happens. More of a risk with "exotic" tropical woods, and unlikely to be serious unless your system is already compromised, but something to be aware of. If in doubt, stop for a while and wash off.

A:

Your risk is probably very small here, but I do want to suggest caution. Within reason there are no downsides to taking precautions to protect yourself from dust, and there might be ill effects if you don't. No need to go overboard, but wearing a simple dust mask when sanding wouldn't do any harm. It's a first line of defence to keep from inhaling the dust.
The thing about wood dusts generally is that they can be irritants, and at worst the irritant effect can build over time, and unfortunately you don't know ahead of time what species might have negative effects for you since it varies from person to person and how sensitive you might be..... nobody knows if they're allergic to something until they're allergic to it!

Virtually everybody recommends using dust masks when sanding wood, but it seems that people generally refer to using power tools on large-ish things like pieces of furniture..?

You probably know this already from your reading but there is some good reasoning behind this. It's partially about the far greater amounts of dust generated by power sanding of course but powered sanding* generates quantities of the finest dusts and it is these that are the most damaging, e.g. because they can be inhaled deepest into the lungs. 

So my question is, should I still wear a dust mask - or are my lungs damaged more by walking by a busy street for five minutes?

Possibly yes and possibly yes :-) It depends on the wood and how much of the dust you inhale, and on the street in question. But most of all it depends on you, everyone's response to irritants is different. 
*Power-tool processes in general are capable of creating much finer dusts than hand-tool processes.

