Q:

How do I choose a drill press?

A drill press seems such an essential tool -- even outside of fine woodworking I have found need for it a great many times -- but as I dive into woodworking I see even more of a need for it. The precision, straightness of cut, and depth limiter will obviously give better results and make some near-impossible hand drill tasks easy. But how do I choose one?
Spindle travel seems very important. 2" sounds tiny and 5" sounds big. How much do I actually need, or what depths should I expect to want to reach. If I only drill through 3/4" wood, any size is fine. (Right?) But a 2x4 could makes more travel useful.
Table size and adjustability seems very important. Big, tiltable, easy clamp spots, etc. would make it most easy to use with any workpiece. Right?
Bench vs floor standing also seems important, however I'm not sure I see many scenarios where floor standing space would actually matter for the workpiece... though maybe I'm short-sighted?
What else am I missing?

A:

Table size matters, but it's common to add your own table -- many drill presses come set up with a table that's better for metalworking than woodworking.
Ease of adjusting the table matters. You want a table that can be reliably brought back to level... or you can leave it level and use a jig when drilling on an angle, which some find easier.  
You want a table whose height is easily adjusted, and that can be swung off to the side for end-drilling large pieces. Most drillpresses will have those features.
You want a head that lets you change speeds reasonably easily.  It should have a built-in depth stop, ideally with both quick and fine adjust. You USUALLY won't need more than 4 inches travel, if that; if you're going deeper, moving the table vertically can supplement quill travel.
Note that I'm saying "want". You can save a significant amount of money by getting what you need instead. The best deal is often a 50-year-old machine in reasonable condition  which may be s bit more nuisance to set up and will be heavy but will do the job just fine, especially if you spend some time tuning it up.

A:

I was hoping someone would cover this question from getting a drill press perspective. Keshlam has done a good job of just that.
I wanted to be sure that you actually need this tool. Like most power tools a drill press will help you perform the same task repeatedly fast and efficiently with good results where tolerance in concerned. I would like to call on a comment by Graphus

Whether you need one is partly about the work you're doing of course

Drill press, in its basic form, will help you make 90 degree (or other angle if you table rotates) in your work pieces. You would need to ask yourself how often you need to do that. In that same vein how often you need to be that accurate. 
You mentioned that you wanted to make some birdhouses. Those are the projects I started out with. Woodworking is one of the trades were tolerance does not have to be 0%. This of course depends on the project but there are many where not everything has to be perfectly flush during assembly. Adjusts can be made after. Nor does a screw have to be perfectly inserted. 
Consider a Jig
Unless you plan to be using a drill press regularly, or get one a good one at cost, you can perform most of the functionality you would get with some jigs. A really good question about this topic is: How do I ensure my drill is perfectly vertical before cutting a hole in my desk?. Two of the answers there cover a homemade jig and a commercial one. 
So again, depending on how often you need that functionally it might be better to start with a jig. Once you get an idea how often you need it then maybe you will know if a drill press is right for you. 

