Q:

Why does my workpiece become rough again after applying polyurethane varnish when it wasn't before?

I am in the process of applying polyurethane varnish to a finished workpiece and have been sanding between coats as advised by the manufacturer instructions.
I initially wondered why this was necessary until, after applying the first coat, I noticed that the wood was bumpy where it hadn't been previously.  Why does this happen?
Am I doing something wrong? My assumption is that sanding between coats ruins the finish.
I used this varnish: http://www.woodoc.com/products/24.

A:

The bumpy feeling you describe is probably the wood grains raising up after applying your varnish; especially if it's a water based one.  I previously asked a question about why it's important to raise the grain.
Sanding between the coats shouldn't ruin your finish.  Just make sure you use a high grit count and sand lightly.  A typical rule of thumb is to use the next grit available after the last sanding grit you used. (For example, if you finished your piece with 220, then it should be 320.)  Furthermore, sanding between the coats allow you to remove minor imperfections such as bubbles.
It's a bit late now, but I suggest you try on a scrap piece of wood before the real piece.  That way, you can see if you like the end result before wasting time and effort on something you are not satisfied.  It's also a good practice for the real deal.

A:

Usually when varnish makes a surface rough, it's either that it's picked up dust during the drying process, or it was being brushed/wiped too long after application.
Gently sanding between thicker coats is necessary to ensure the peaks and valleys of the finish don't interfere with adhesion of future coats, and so their appearance isn't exacerbated by future coats. But keep it gentle, and don't be afraid to use a higher grit than the manufacturer's specs.
I highly recommend thinning. Thinning a varnish to wiping consistency (about 50/50 with OMS) and applying twice as many thin coats (that dry twice as fast) eliminates a host of issues with finishing. 
Fix:  ensure the drying environment is relatively dustless, and don't overwork the application (wipe and say goodbye till it's dry)

