Q:

Where do I put the standards for adjustable shelves?

Is there a standard distance or formula for where to put standards for adjustable shelves? 
http://www.rockler.com/zinc-shelf-standards-select-length

A:

There are no set distances for shelf standards, the reason being that how close together you want or need them to be depends on various factors, including:

Shelf material
Shelf thickness
The expected load on the shelf
The distribution of the load

Material
For an equivalent thickness particleboard/chipboard sags more readily than oak, pine sags more readily than plywood and so forth.
Thickness
Thicker material resist sagging more than thinner material.
Weight
Heavy power tools or numerous hardcover reference books will obviously tend to cause sagging more than a few softcover books or some knick-knacks.
Distribution
This is under-appreciated as a factor in how you mount, and subsequently load, shelves. General advice to help prevent shelves from bowing includes not mounting the brackets right at the ends (although this is sometimes unavoidable and with some shelf material it's fine, especially if the loads are going to be light) and not positioning heavy items in the centre of a shelf as this exerts the greatest bending force. 
Distribution of the load across the width of a shelf, or putting the heaviest items right over the supports can often be advised. Another method that's not as commonly recommended is for when the brackets are not mounted right at the ends of a shelf, and here you can put heavy items on each end (outboard of the brackets) which can counterbalance the tendency towards sagging from a heavy load in the middle, within reason. 
You may need more specifics than can be provided here so visit one of the go-to resources online, the Sagulator, if you need to calculate how much sagging you can expect for your chosen shelf material. 
You might also like to read Shelving Spans for Bookcases on the Woodsmith etips site, and this PDF from the Composite Panel Associations, a technical bulletin on the use of particleboard and MDF for shelving.

