Q:

Storing Danish oil

I use Danish oil on some of my small projects. This is supplied in a small metal can with a screw-cap beneath which is a metal seal you pry out.
I find that if I store the unused Danish oil in the same can upright, a skin of cured oil forms on top and makes it hard to use the remainder.
I have taken to screwing the lid on tightly and inverting the can so that the skin forms near the base of the can and doesn't obstruct the flow. However the screw-cap tends to glue-up solid.
Having destructively removed the stuck cap I tried storing the remainder in a glass jar with a tight fitting lid (old coffee jar). This doesn't solve the problem but the wider neck makes it easier to pierce the thick skin that forms. Before I have used half the remaining oil is slowly gelling (though still just about usable). This is far from satisfactory.
I quite like the finish produced by Danish oil but these problems are making it seem wasteful and troublesome. I believe it is a curing oil rather than a drying oil so adding solvents might not help. Is there a better way to store the Danish oil?
Alternatively should I switch to shellac flakes and just make up the amount of finish I need for a single project?

A:

This is because when you close the can there is still sufficient oxygen left inside to start the finish curing.  Removing the skin will allow you to continue using the finish, but only to a limited extent.  Eventually the remaining finish will thicken, as you've seen, and be unusable.
There are several ways to get around this, including spraying a non-oxygen gas into the container before sealing it, or filling the empty space with something non-reactive like ping-pong balls, but the best way is to keep your finish in bags.
They make HDPE plastic bags with small screw-top caps.  The main use for these that I know of (i.e. search for this on Amazon) is for smuggling liquor onto cruise ships that charge you to drink on board.  When you put the finish in the bag simply squeeze out all of the air that you can before putting on the cap.  Since there is no oxygen in the container the finish will not start curing (except for possibly right by the mouth, but this is such a small surface it can be ignored.)
Using this method I have been able to successfully use the very last drops of oil-based finishes, and the bags can be reused (for the same finish, obviously) more or less indefinitely.

