Q:

Is there a known solution to the arbor nut on my DeWalt jobsite saw coming loose?

Found this site searching for "loose arbor nut." A couple of years ago several subscribers mentioned that the arbor nut on their DeWalt jobsite saw (DWE7491) repeatedly came loose.
Unaware of this, I just bought a used one and discovered that my saw has the same problem. As a second owner there is no warranty coverage, although I was sent a replacement arbor nut. Didn't help.
So I replaced the arbor nut and also cleaned the shaft, washer, nut, and blade (blade had a little residue from resin removal), but none seemed to have oil/grease on them. Checked threads on the arbor and they looked fine (not a machinist, though, so check was just visual). Started saw a couple of times following that and nut remained tight, but didn't try to cut anything.
Did anyone find out, definitively, what causes that problem and what it takes to fix it?
Is there a response/acknowledgment from DeWalt about this problem? Dewalt rep I talked to suggested taking the saw to a service center.

A:

As you've probably found during your own search, you're not the only one to report a problem with the arbor nut on this saw. Here are a couple examples that I found in just a minute or two:

One user reported the blade coming off entirely while the saw was running, resulting in damage to the saw. Someone replying to that message also says that their arbor nut becomes loose after a while, and suggests retightening it periodically.

Another user on the same page thinks it's strange that Dewalt doesn't advertise the saw's braking feature. To me, that suggests that at least in some cases the saw may stop spinning quickly, which would explain the arbor nut coming loose. Perhaps some of these saws have bad bearings in either the arbor assembly or the motor?

A review on Amazon admits that the blade only comes off "sometimes."

At least seven different users commented on the suggested duplicate to say that they've had the same problem with the same saw.

So to answer the title question, it sounds like the problem is known to at least some users, but not admitted to by Dewalt. I don't think it matters that you're not the original owner — a table saw that's known to  have a problem with the blade coming off in operation is downright dangerous, and certainly defective.
If I were in your shoes, I'd write to Dewalt explaining the problem, and I'd attach copies of the reports linked above as well as any others you may have found as evidence that there's a problem. If you have the time, you might also do some testing to quantify the problem -- maybe use a torque wrench to tighten the nut to known, repeatable setting, and then see how many times you have to start and stop the saw before the nut becomes loose. I'd also be sure to send a copy of the letter, attachments, and data to the CPSC.

