Q:

Help needed to decide between a miter saw or sliding miter saw

I occasionally do some wood project for fun.
I already have a 10” table saw and I have a limited budget to buy a 10” miter saw. 
My budget allows me to either buy a Dewalt DW713 or a lower brand sliding miter saw with a laser for the same price.
I personally like the Dewalt DW713. However, I wonder how important the sliding feature is? I don’t want to regret not having the sliding feature in future.
Update and Final Thought
I thank you, everyone, for sharing your though here. While I got my answer from this post, I think it highly depends on the usage scenario, preferences, and brands. Therefore I don't think there is only one answer here.

A:

Rather than a higher quality miter saw I purchased a low end sliding miter saw years ago and have not regretted the choice.
I did try out several sliding miter saws before making my choice, however, as I found that very low end saws were extraordinarily imprecise.  The import shop, for instance, had something that cost half as much, but when manipulating it in the store it was obvious that it moved out of the cut plane easily when pulling it forward.
The brand name sliding saws had a much more solid feel, but in the store with the brand name saws I found a lower cost off brand name saw that felt good, and had the features I wanted.
As others have pointed out, though, a sliding saw is much larger and heavier, and honestly it fits in a little bit of a niche if you only plan on buying one miter saw:

A moderate amount of repeated miter cuts on wide material
Want to move it occasionally, but not frequently

If you have few cuts to make with wider material, get a regular miter saw and use a circular saw or hand saw for the rare cut that is wider.  If you never plan to move it, you might want to consider a 12 inch non-sliding machine, but if you're always moving it, you should probably go with a miter saw, and consider a track saw for the longer cuts. If you need precision then this is the wrong area to save money - most of these saws are designed for construction work and 1/32" or 1/16" precision is just fine for the intended use.
If you do get a sliding miter saw, make sure that the sliding and miter action feel good and solid before you buy one, it should be pretty obvious if it's flimsy.

A:

The advantage of the "sliding" saws which are sort of a poor man's version of a radial arm saw are that they will cut slightly wider material. For example, a DW717 will cut a 12" wide board where the DW713 will only cut a 10" wide board. The sliding saws are considerably more rickety than the basic type.
Just as a general principle it is a good idea to stick to solid, high quality equipment. With a cheapo saw you will probably have cuts that are not perfectly straight and other annoying issues.

A:

I bought a 12" Dewalt compound miter years ago.  The slider was too much more at the time.  I love my saw but I am always regretting not having a slider.  It is amazing how often I have boards that are 1/2" -2" too wide.  A 12" miter does not cut a 12" board, like you probably noticed the 10" doesn't come close to a 10" board either.
My recommendation, is always if you can afford a decent slider, go for it.  Unless you really rarely cut boards larger than the capacity.  I frequently cut boards after glue up of 11-12", some I can 'lift up' the board to finish, but mostly I have to flip the board over and try to line up the cut and hope that my long sides are parallel.
If there is a huge difference in quality (I read a lot of reviews to help make that distinction) then the question is the slider at a quality that is at least sufficient for your needs.  If the slider is really for cutting 2x stock and not nice hardwoods, then I would pass it up.  
I've learned to buy the best tool I can afford for the job I plan to use it for.  A simple tool I'll use less than once a year, I'll likely go for cheap.  A miter I want to make an investment, sometimes this means waiting longer to save up more money for it.  A router is something you can get cheap, and then save up and get a better one, since every shop could use at least 2 routers, (I'd like more!)
But I got/get tired of buying new tools because I bought crap the first time.

