Q:

how to fix very light scratches in polyurethane finish?

I just got a nice new wooden table, and, being completely clueless about wood, scrubbed it with the rougher side of a dish sponge because it had some weird rough spots on the surface.  Now it's slightly scratched all over - the scratches are very shallow (the color is fine and I can't feel them with my fingers), but I see them in reflected light and they get on my nerves.  What can I, a person who has never dealt with wood before, do to fix this?
The table, according to the manufacturer, has a polyurethane finish (on top of a walnut veneer). It doesn't look glossy, so the scratches aren't too much of a disaster, but I'd still like to fix them if that's reasonably doable.
So far I tried Howard's Orange Oil Wood Polish and Old English Scratch Cover for Dark Woods (both rubbed in with a cotton cloth), but neither worked, although the Scratch Cover maybe helped a little.

A:

You're going to have to make this look worse before it looks better. The first step is *gulp* to lightly sand or scuff the entire surface until the existing scratches aren't evident, and then do one of the following to restore shine:

polish the surface of the existing varnish
add fresh polyurethane.

Polishing the surface is the harder of the two options here and not one I'd recommend a first-timer try on a completed piece of furniture. It's not too difficult to do but it requires practice and you don't have anything to practice on so that really only leaves option no. 2, which I think is the better route anyway. 
The second option probably sounds daunting if you've never used varnish before but by using what's called wiping varnish (which can be bought readymade or made at home) it's quite easy to get a very good result without prior experience, as long as you follow the instructions. 
After the sanding/scuffing of the existing varnish it's simply a matter of applying wiping varnish* as normal, layer by layer until you have a uniform sheen that you're happy with. There is more than one application method you can employ, but for simplicity you should probably use the wipe-on/wipe-off method which is the easiest and most straightforward and will virtually guarantee good results.
Full instructions on how to go about this in this extract from Flexner on Finishing: Finally - Answers to Your Wood Finishing Fears & Frustrations by Bob Flexner.

A:

The polyurethane will be well cured by now. Without stripping everything back and starting over (which you should NOT do cause it's far too much work for a few scatches) all you can do is try and mask them (which you say you've tried and not had much success with), or apply a few coats of poly on top.
As the existing finish will be completely cured, you will need to give the entire surface a very light (scuff) sanding first with high grit sand paper. This will hide/blend the existing scratches and give the new coat of poly something to physically bond to.  I would use a wipe on poly (homemade - 50/50 mineral spirits + poly blend) and apply at least 3 or 4 coats over a couple of days (following directions on can for timing).
You'll definitely want to try this on the underside of the table first (or on some non visible part) - I'm sure you'd hate to end up making the problem worse (or at least more visible)
Bear in mind that the new finish will be comparatively soft for up to a month and may also be quite stinky for the first week or so.

