Q:

Can you separate a biscuit wood joint?

I have a two person desk that was made years ago from 16mm wood, PG bison boards. The top is a 32mm top.
It is attached to the legs and mid-section with biscuits where wood glue was applied and the biscuits were inserted into slots cut by a router. That's the way my carpenter did it.
I am currently getting a new desk stand, and would like to use the current top I have.
Is there a way to separate the top from the legs?
Or should aim on the wood glue first to "loosen" the joint somehow and pry it apart?
I have not tried anything as yet, trying to weigh my options at the moment.
Any help and guidance is greatly appreciated.

A:

If it were me, I'd just use a nice trim saw to cut through the joint to separate the top from the legs. You're getting rid of the legs anyway, so what difference does it make if you cut a mm or two off of them.
Alternatively, if you don't want to use (or don't have) a flush cutting saw, cut through the legs really close to the bottom of the desktop, then sand what's left of the legs off the underside of the top.

A:

Not being familiar with PG Bison I had to Google it and it appears to be melamine-faced board or one kind or another:

MelaWood速 is PG Bison's leading brand of decorative melamine faced board (MFB)....
MelaWood速 uses either BisonBord速 or SupaWood速 as a core....

Source.
There's a chance the hold of the glue to the edges of the legs is fairly weak (because glues don't bond well to melamine) in which case all you really have to overcome is the glue hold between the biscuits and the core material, BisonBord being chipboard/particleboard and SupaWood being MDF.
To be honest the glue hold on biscuits even in solid wood is rather famously not great! It will typically be much weaker in either chipboard or MDF because they're friable materials and tend to over-absorb glue.
Quite apart from this you'll be doing any investigatory prying/levering on what is now and what will again be the underside of the desktop, so I don't think you're risking much if the separation isn't quite as neat as you'd like. Any ugliness that results will never be visible unless someone crawls under the desk and looks up.
But if it looks like it is putting up a lot of resistance it would not hurt to heat the joint line very well using a hairdryer, or more cautiously with a heat gun. The glues most likely to have been used here are both softened by heat.

