Q:

How to scorch to darken a part of a piece of wood and not the other?

I intend draw a dark line 50mm / 2" large using a blowtorch on a piece of pine wood, but how to have a nice & clean line border ?
I thought of using sacrificial wood pieces or aluminium sheets as flame barrier but honestly I've no idea where to start.
I don't need the line to be black but just darker.
I've seen a "hot sand" trick but it's effective for edges only.
I'm targeting a rustic style, but I've no metal bars big enough to heat.

A:

bowlturner's answer is correct, and will probably give you the results you are looking for. But it inspired me to experiment, mostly to see how sharp an edge I could get.
Hardwood Guide

As you can see, just setting down a piece of hardwood makes an obvious, if not sharp, line. The main problem is getting into the corner. I tried to only scorch the pine, so I couldn't wait for the flame to burn the inside edge.
Metal Guide

This time I slowed down and concentrated on getting the flame into the corner. I also used a steel guide, but I didn't see a difference from the hardwood guide.
As you can see, this one is quite well done (burnt), but it does have a sharper edge.
Masking Tape

Not great, but not as bad as I thought. The heat melts off the adhesive and it's easy to burn through the tape a little bit, but it made an okay line. I cleaned off the adhesive with mineral spirits.
Routed Recess

I also tried routing out a shallow area to receive the burning, with the intention of planing off the high spot. This didn't work though, because it creates another inside edge that the flame can't reach. But if you could somehow get the burned part right up next to a freshly-planed edge, I'm confident that this would give you the cleanest, sharpest edge possible.
Source for all images: me

A:

I am assuming you are using the torch to 'scorch' the wood and not really burn it.  I think that clamping another piece of wood as a "sacrificial piece" onto the line should work just fine.  Doing this light enough and you can reuse the one board over and over again.  if it is getting to burnt than run it through the jointer to square it up again.  
Using a hardwood for the boarder piece it will last longer and hold up better, but another piece of pine can work too.  a piece of metal might need to be thicker to work as well so that it doesn't transfer the heat to the wood giving you a wavy line under it.

