Q:

How to use a very large Forstner-style bit

This Forstner bit is 92mm in diameter, it's very large. I need to make a clean hole into a block of wood.
Looks a bit dangerous, or looks like there's a risk to break the bit or tool.
So how am I supposed to use it, with a hand drill, with a drill press, and at what rpm ?
Common sense tells me to use the drill press, because the hole would be straight, but reading the bit's Amazon reviews people say that it's more dangerous than with a hand drill!
Here's what the bit looks like:

A:

Not to be overly picky but I think it's important to point out that this is not a Forstner bit, no matter how it's named by the manufacturer. It's clearly derived from them of course, but all the key details that are changed here make it a different bit entirely..... most especially the lead screw.

Depending on the wood species you're drilling into, the thickness of the stock, the number of holes and how a couple of test drills go I'd be very tempted to do this with a brace myself if the lead screw is not removable. Lead screws already take the place of some/a lot of the downwards pressure requirement when drilling, which is why they're a feature of nearly all later bits designed for braces.
However, that said this bit is obviously intended for use with a power drill and >99% of users are going to use them that way. And the lead screw I think changes the best-practice advice from what it normally is for Forstner bits and derivative designs (which is that once you go above a certain diameter you should always mount them in a drill press/bench drill).
Lead screws can be a real nightmare for power drilling and I've had some minor accidents myself (despite thinking I was being careful enough). And there's lots of long-standing advice from the old days to never use a bit with a lead screw in a drill press because the self-feeding is at odds with the way the drill press wants to advance.
Note: one portion of standing advice for large bits like this should remain, and that is they should be run much more slowly than smaller ones (because the speed at the rim must be controlled to avoid overheating). Here this will also help reduce the risk of runaway feeding.

Adjust drill to a very slow speed, and here even more than normally try to let the bit do the work.
Be prepared to stop if something goes wrong.
Make sure the workpiece is clamped down very securely.
If drilling multiple holes and the rim is getting uncomfortably hot put the drill aside to allow the bit to cool before proceeding (or dunk in water).

A:

Well in general I always recommend using a drill press with forsner bits, they aren't required, but you got to take a lot of care if you don't and the press you get a cleaner hole more often.  In either case for one that size the piece you are drilling should be clamped down pretty well, since the first danger is the piece spinning and getting you.
the next thing is it is best to have a drill with the side handle (if you are using a hand drill, or you have a good chance of hurting yourself when the bit catches.
And since this is one with the center bit being a screw, that just adds to the fun, since it just keeps pulling the bit into the wood, and if you have an under powered drill (hand or press) it can make it 10 times harder to do, since you will then need to go slow enough that the screw is just drilling and not pulling...

