Q:

Cut, then Sand? Or Vice-versa

I have a rough-sanded red oak panel (120 grit). I need to make a small circular cut with a jigsaw for a grommet. I plan on sanding the panel with 150, then 180 grit, in preparation for either staining and sealing, or just sealing.
I was planning on using blue painter's tape on the panel, and some on the foot of the jigsaw, to help prevent any scratching.
Should I cut this hole before doing my 150 and 180 sanding? The hole is about 100mm (3.9") in diameter.
I worry that I'll get better sanding results without the hole in the way, but that I could have to re-do some sanding if the foot of the jigsaw scratches the surface.
Which is the tried-and-tested best practice here?

A:

Unless your hole is too large, you should use a hole-saw bit for your drill rather than a jigsaw. If you can't, then make sure you're using a fine-toothed blade and some sacrificial scrap to prevent tear-out.
If you like extra work, you could sand first and make your cut, but no matter the precautions you take, you're likely to have a little-touch-up work to do. For any project, finish sanding should be the last step: You should cut your wood to its completed shape, then sand.

A:

As Daniel B. mentioned, a jigsaw isn't the ideal tool if you want a smooth cut.
If you have a drill press, you can use a circle cutter for a smooth cut.
You can also use a small router and circle cutting jig to get a nice, smooth cut.
In either case, use a sacrificial piece of wood on the exit side of your workpiece to prevent blowout.
Just to be safe, I would cut the hole then finish sanding but it probably won't make much difference if you use a cutting method and technique that produces a clean cut straight off the tool.

A:

Since your finished hole is going to lined with a grommet, it seems that a little tear out can easily be tolerated.  I think that with your use of masking tape to limit the tear out you are on the right track and can reasonably use your jigsaw.  
Circle cutters are kind of tricky and you would want to make several practice cuts before you commit to using it on a cherished project.
If you decide to use a hole saw, you can eliminate the tear out by drilling from both sides of the panel.  Again practice cuts would be advisable.
Cut the hole, finish sanding, insert the grommet.

