Q:

How do I prepare and take care of a wooden countertop?

I got a piece of acacia that was already oiled. I cannot specify what kind of acacia that is.
I cut it to size and sanded the surface smooth.
As the sanding removed parts of the oiled wood, I applied some linseed oil (It was some left over from a can of oil bought from ikea. Called "behandla" and labelled "linseed oil". It is still available.)
I applied oil until the wood wouldn't soak it up any more.
After that I let it sit for a few days with puddles of oil on the surface.
I wiped off the excess.
However, as soon as I first wiped the countertop with a wet cloth, it soaked up the water (I could clearly tell from the smell).
The surface that was very smooth after sanding got rough again. The fibers of wood are noticeable on the surface.
It's not a problem for me, the wood looks rustic anyway.
Because this was the first time I ever did this, I would like to know:

Should I apply more oil? I wonder how, because the wood soaked up
as much as it could
Can I get the surface permanently smooth by sanding and applying oil
again? Wood is a natural material after all, that takes and gives
humidity. Maybe it was dry and just needed a bit more water. Or maybe I have to adjust my expectations of what's possible with wood as a material?
How do I keep the oil in the wood? I noticed that when I put
something heavy on the countertop, the surface of the wood becomes
oily. I think this is because the applied pressure forces the oil
out of the wood

A:

Are you certain you want an oil finish? Will you be using it as a cutting board?
I know a lot of blogs/websites suggest an oil finish because it's advertised as food-safe, but all finishes are food safe when fully cured (except for led-based finishes). I just installed butcherblock countertops from ikea (see image below). 

I used a polyurethane (varnish) and am VERY glad I did. Not only does it resist dents and scratches, but it protects the wood in other ways such as from water damage. Case in point--one of my kids left their school papers on the counter and another kid spilled water over it. It wasn't until the next day that I noticed the ink had bled through onto the countertops. I just wiped it with dish soap and it was gone. (Which wouldn't happen if it only had an oil finish). 

A:

I applied oil until the wood wouldn't soak it up any more. After that I let it sit for a few days with puddles of oil on the surface.
I wiped off the excess.

I don't know if this was the application method recommended on the tin but this is the wrong way to oil wood. The correct application method is to apply a generous coating, let it sit for between 20 minutes to a couple of hours at most and then to wipe off every trace of excess from the surface with clean cloths or paper towels. When you're done the wood should no longer feel oily.
This needs to be repeated multiple times. A traditional oiled finish on wood is not a quick process because of the number of coats called for and the necessary 'drying' time. 15 or more coats would not have been unusual in the past and this took a very long time.
One traditional application regimen is:
"One coat per day for a week, one coat a week for a month, one coat per month for a year, then one coat per year for life."
Most people don't have the time or patience for this today, but you want to build up at least 4-7 coats and let them cure for good durability. So in addition to not building up coats there hasn't been sufficient time for the oil to 'dry' (oils of this type don't actually dry, they cure by a process called oxidative polymerisation).
But beyond that there is the fact that oiled finishes are actually not especially waterproof. Proper water-resistance is only provided by a film-building finish, for example a varnish.
Safety note
Using a drying oil such as linseed oil you must take care to dispose of any oil-soaked rags or paper properly. They are a significant fire hazard as they don't need an ignition source, if left wadded up they can spontaneously combust.
So either dry flat on the floor (once dry they are no longer a combustion risk), or put into a suitable metal or glass container with plenty of water.

