Q:

Plywood or Pine for bed base sub-structure

I'm planning on building a base for a queen-sized mattress, and need to decide on a material for the base's sub-structure frame. I am planning on covering/cladding this frame with a hardwood like White or French Oak. I know that mixing hardwoods and softwoods together is ill-advised due to wood movement especially in softwood, but building the entire sub-structure frame out of even a cheap hardwood will push this project way out of budget.
There is a company in my area that sells reclaimed Baltic Pine (I live in South Africa). I've worked with it before and it seems to be about the same density as our regular local pine (may be a bit harder if I do a thumbnail-press-test). This option would be great as it would bring me in way under budget.
My second option would be to use cheap 15mm Pine Plywood (I think these have an Okoume core) and laminate them together to create the needed structural components. However, I've worked out that for this project, I would therefore need to purchase at least 4 sheets which will cost me 6x the amount of purchasing the required Baltic Pine.
I haven't given any thought yet to what method I will be using to attach the hardwood to the frame, but I'll probably end up settling on using regular cold wood glue and countersunk screws.
So my question is, is there a way I can make this work using the Baltic Pine?
The picture below is just a depiction of what I have in mind, using the frame posts as an example.

A:

In short, to answer your question, I don't think this is the best design for softwood construction.
I think the material you choose will drive the joinery, not the other way around. Either will do, but the best way to make a carcase out of plywood will not be the best way to make a carcase out of pine.
Plywood takes fasteners and glue really well, and is very stable in all directions under most circumstances. So simple joints like you show will be stable and probably won't change much under static and racking loads.
Pine, depending on overall quality, will likely deform and can wallow out where fasteners go through it. It will move with the relative humidity along one axis more than the others over time, loosening glue and screw joints. So, for example, the way you show the pine on either side of the foot or compression piece may start to move and check over time because of natural wood movement and racking forces.
Decide on the material, then use that material the way that reinforces its strengths and minimizes the weaknesses.
Or, choose your design and let that inform the material you use.

