Q:

How to plane boards to the same thickness

What is the best way to plane boards to the same thickness?
I was recently using and researching a bit into bench-top planers like: https://www.ryobitools.com/products/details/13-surface-planer-with-rapidset-blade-system
My first thought was there would be some minimum thickness "stopper" that could be locked in for a given project, and then I could start shaving a bit off a handful of boards until they reached that thickness.
It appears this and other planers don't offer such a feature (or have I just not found it)?
Thinking about another way to achieve the goal: it seems I could pass all boards through, lower the height of the cutter head, pass them all through again, lower again, and so on, with the final height being the same. That way seems like more work-especially if the starting thicknesses are significantly different.

A:

I work with a lot of pallet wood and frequently many of the boards will be different thickness. 

I could pass all boards through, lower the height, pass them all through again, lower again, and so on

This is exactly what I do. My planer does not have set stops so I cannot 100% accurately come back to the same thickness every time. So that is why I do exactly what you said when I want to have the same thickness for a group of boards. This is also why I try and make sure I do all the boards in one "session" so I do not have to remember where I am in the process.
Collect all the boards I want to do at once and work one side at a time. Passing them all through at the same thickness. Lower the height and repeat until I am happy with the results. This can mean that I am passing boards that are not getting cut at every pass. I still put the board through though to be sure.
If you have access to a joiner it certainly works well with this process as you can use that to try and get one side and adjoining edge true before planing the other side.  

A:

Benchtop planers frequently do have positive stops at predetermined intervals. The Ryobi AP1300, for example, has them at 1/4" intervals. I don't know about the 1301 model, but it's certainly something to look for. If the planer doesn't have these stops, or you want to plane to a thickness not corresponding to one of the stops (eg, 5/8" on the AP1300), then the approach is basically what you had come up with... it's not really a lot more work, since each board has to go through the same treatment anyway you cut it. It does take some more organization though. 
but the bigger questions is : Do you really need every piece to be the same thickness? Do they really need to be interchangable?

