Q:

How can I chamfer thick (1.5") material?

I'd like to add a 22.5 degree chamfer to thick (1.5"+) material.  In the past I've done small chamfers on a router table with a chamfer bit.  Unfortunately I can't seem to find any chamfer bits that are big enough to cut 1.5".  What's a good way to go about this.  I suppose it doesn't have to be exactly 22.5 degrees (for aesthetic purposes only), but I do want it repeatable and uniform (e.g. 20 degrees along the entire edge is fine).  Is there a way to use a shorter router bit that I'm not seeing?  Are there other tools for the job?  Should I start with a short chamfer and start planing the material down?
Edit:
The work piece is a 1.5" tall cylinder with outer diameter of 10" and inner diameter of 6" (e.g. 2" wall thickness).  I'd like to chamfer both the inside and outside edges.
Edit2:
I decided to "cheat".  A friend has a CNC router so I just ran it on that.  Took forever and had a few gcode errors, but came out well enough.

A:

Planing by hand would be the standard response for any hand-tool aficionado, as this is how chamfers were done before power tools came along. This can be done freehand, by planing to marked or gauged lines on the face and edges, but it's easier to use some kind of chamfering jig if accuracy and repeatability are desired.
Because I'm presuming you'll want to do four sides of something you're going to need to go cross-grain and planing a significant length and width of end grain by hand can be a bear, even if you have the right type of plane. So at least for those ends I'd suggest you use some kind of power tool to remove all or most of the material, then clean up taking very light passes with a block plane, with a card scraper, or just by sanding.
My thoughts on suitable power tools were in rough order: table saw, bandsaw and belt sander. 
With the table saw the blade can obviously be tilted to 22.5° and then it's just a straightforward saw cut. 
With the bandsaw, if the bed can't be tilted to the required angle then an angled bed can be built from plywood or MDF. But obviously if you're doing the chamfers on the edges of a large workpiece manoeuvring it safely could be impossible. 
The belt sander I thought could be used in one of two ways: either freehanding it (just to hog off most of the material) or by setting the sander upside down, tilted to the correct angle and then the workpiece could be slid past it, face side down, almost like you were using a jointer. If a sliding jig is rigged up and the sander fixed firmly in place I think this could give very accurate results.

A:

For something that big, I would use a table saw to make the main cut, and then use a belt/orbit sander to smooth it out nice.  If you are good with a hand plane then you might leave a little to be planed off with a hand plane.  
That much is a lot and using a bigger tool is the better way to go.

A:

Based on your edit and comments, it sounds like you want to chamfer the inside and outside circumferences of a short but large diameter hollow cylinder so each end of the cylinder comes to a point, so you end up with a toroid with a rhombus/diamond-shaped cross-section. In that case, I think a lathe would do a great job.
Another option would be to use a trim router with an angled base, spiral bit, and template and/or jig.

