Q:

Recommended finish for workbench vise

I made a small tabletop Moxon vise and after some research decided to finish it using a 3-part mix of equal parts polyurethane, boiled linseed oil, and mineral spirits. Sounds okay to me, but I'd like to be able to finish it in my home and the Helmsman smells too much for that.
I have some Campbell MagnaMax H2O waterborne poly that's almost odor free, and am wondering if there's any way I could use that to achieve similar results.

A:

I don't know if you can mix BLO with waterborne poly, but I wouldn't really recommend it.
The finish mix you mentioned is typically used when you want a wipe-on finish that provides the amber coloring of BLO and offers the added protection of a polyurethane.  To break it down, BLO is easy to apply and provides a strong amber coloring but offers little protection against scratches.  Oil-based poly provides additional protection as it is a film-based finish, but it can be difficult to apply.  Cutting oil-based poly 50/50 with mineral spirits makes it easier to apply.  This is known as "wiping poly" and can also be purchased pre-mixed.  General Finishes Arm-R-Seal is probably the most commonly used example of this.
The chemistry of waterborne polyurethane is much more sensitive than oil-based poly.  I personally wouldn't recommend mixing it with anything other than water.  If you want to get the amber hue of BLO but want to use waterborne poly you will need to apply the BLO first, wait for it to completely cure, then apply the waterborne topcoat.
Note that the cure time for BLO can be quite long, on the order of 1-2 weeks.  Also, you mentioned that you wanted to avoid odors, but BLO has quite a strong odor which will be present through the entire cure time.
Unless you really want the amber color of BLO I'd just use a waterborne poly.  If you're having trouble brushing it on you can cut it with additional water to allow a wiping application.  As with any finish you're unfamiliar with, try it on a test board first.

