Q:

DIY honing oil?

I can't find honing oil locally anymore.  My (chisel) sharpening is pretty low-end - I don't even know what kind of stone I have.  (I got it at Lowes, long ago.  It has 2 faces, one pink, one dark-ish gray.)  Mostly, I just need something to keep the stone from loading up.  I know I can order oil online; but, I never get around to it.   And besides, the shipping.  
So, I'm thinking to try to roll my own.  Hence, the question.  Things that I've heard can be used: mineral oil, vegetable oil, 3-in-1 oil, ATF, kerosene.  I'd probably just do one of the kerosene-mineral oil mixes, except my wife can't stand the smell of kerosene.  (Go figure.)  
I would appreciate any thoughts on this.

A:

Things that I've heard can be used: mineral oil, vegetable oil, 3-in-1 oil, ATF, kerosene. 

Yes these can all be used. ATF should be avoided as it can contain ingredients you don't want on your skin, and there are many reliably safe alternatives.
Mineral oils
Commercial honing oils are nine times out of ten just mineral oil (UK: paraffin oil or liquid paraffin), sometimes merely with a colourant added so that it's not quite so obvious that it's only mineral oil. All simple lubricating oils are based on a form of mineral oil (including 3-In-One), and so is baby oil. 
If you don't mind the sickly-sweet smell of baby oil that's a perfectly good alternative and many woodworkers use it. Video here from Graham Haydon showing him using baby oil on his India stone.
You can of course avoid the smell and just use straight mineral oil, but mineral oil alone can be a little heavy on some stones. As a rough guide the finer the stone the lighter the oil you want to use.
In place of kerosene you can use mineral spirits (UK: white spirit), which actually is a very very thin oil. On very fine, dense oilstones spirit works surprisingly well by itself, but is a little too light on many coarser stones, and as mentioned straight mineral oil can be a little too heavy. However a blend of the two can be made to hit the exact viscosity mark you're personally fond of or which best suits the stones you're using. 
Vegetable oils
A great many vegetable oils can used successfully as honing oil. Most pose no problem at all (see note below on rancidity) but you do have to be careful not to accidentally choose a drying or semi-drying oil — which includes tung oil, flaxseed oil, walnut oil, poppy oil, safflower and some forms of sunflower oil. These can start to 'dry' and begin to gel, clogging the stone and making it nearly useless.
Older books often warn of the danger of using linseed oil (a drying oil) on your honing stones for this very reason. Note that flaxseed oil is linseed oil by another name.
Safe oils to use: corn oil, soya oil, most forms of rapeseed oil (canola) and peanut oil. You can also use almond oil, macadamia nut oil and olive oil, but given their higher price they're hardly a practical consideration.
Note: there's no need to worry about vegetable oil going rancid unless you're in the habit of completely flooding the stone and not wiping it down afterwards. Even at that the only real issue is a slightly stale or "off" smell, there's no other negative effect.

A:

I use Norton Sharpening Stone Oil for my oilstones.  If you take a look at the product description, they say it's 100% food-safe mineral oil.  It seems a little less viscous than the mineral oil I use for cutting boards, which makes sense since they claim to refine it a little.
Otherwise, you can use most oils for honing.  I'd avoid anything that is too thick or gummy to keep from clogging your tools and stones.  In the past I've used pretty much everything on your list and they've all worked fine.  The main point of the honing fluid is to clear the swarf (bits of metal and stone) from the surface, freeing fresh abrasive underneath.  Anything that will suspend/wash away the swarf will work.
If you plan on using your stones for anything that will contact food, I would stick with mineral oil or vegetable oil.  However, since you've indicated you've had them a while, I'd guess they're contaminated at this point with other stuff anyway, so it may be a non-issue at this point.
It's also worth noting that you can use plain old water on an oilstone, so long as you haven't first used oil on it.  I have a couple smaller stones and an axe puck that I use for camping that I only use with water, and they work fine.  You will have to keep these above freezing though, otherwise the water entrapped in the stones will crack the stones like a concrete sidewalk.

A:

I used an oil stone with proper honing oil religiously, until I tried a water stone. The water stone's been great; no more need for oil/oil-alternatives! Just a pre-sharpening soak and regular rinsing throughout works wonders!
Granted, this is not an answer to the question diy honing oil?, but if your question/preference can be generalized to how to avoid buying oil for sharpening? this is my two cents. Good luck!

