Q:

Options for sanding this type of bandsawn woodwork

I recently discovered Seth Rolland's furniture website and unique technique /style.
 
The fan shaped top is cut from one piece of wood using a bandsaw alternating cuts from opposite sides that stop short of cutting the full length thus creating a very flexible shape, one I want to explore.
The first problem I thought of is how to clean up the sawmarked edges created by the bandsaw.  I don't have a vertical belt sander, but even that tool will be limited by its throat width to several inches.  Is there alternative I could use?

A:

If I were going into production, a dedicated special purpose sanding machine would seem appropriate.
However, for the one-off sort of project that most of woodworking SE contributors are likely to do, good old hand sanding, coarse to fine, will probably work fine.
The big issue is to make sure that when sanding deep in the throat near the end of the cut, I would attach a C-clamp (properly padded) on the uncut portion to prevent the accidental splitting that could quite likely occur should the sanding get overly enthusiastic.

A:

The guy I bought my used bandsaw from, only got a new one because of one feature I found fascinating. He wanted a bandsaw he could fit a sanding-band into.
I just tried looking for this on international (English) sites, but couldn't find anything on it. The brand he bought was either a "Hammer" or or "Felder", which to my knowledge are quality woodworking tool companies that sell (and i think produce) in Austria and Germany. I couldn't find decent pictures of those though.
But here's a link to a page describing just such a bandsaw (in German, sorry) accompanied by pictures illustrating the benefits of such a system quite good in my opinion.
The belt-rest could be made quite thin, or left out entirely if one knows what he's doing. The pieces that could be sanded can be quite a lot bigger than with your default belt sander. Depending of course on the cut-height, distance between blade and machine base and so forth.
PS: i would have added the images directly, but i'm not quite ready to be sued by some copyright enthusiast :)

A:

http://www.amazon.com/Makita-9032-4-4-Amp-8-Inch-Variable/dp/B0000614UT
The link is something that will more than likely set your standard for this. It is a narrow and long belt sander that should get a good area of what you need to sand. Otherwise for the rest your better off by hand. When doing it by hand I would fold it up  so it is more sturdy while working with it.

