Q:

How to build wardrobe with top shelf? Actual shelf, or two boxes?

I am wanting to build a wardrobe with a shelf above the rail, but I am not sure how will be the appropriate way to go about it from the actual carcass construction to how to make the shelf itself.
I plan on making this wardrobe about 1600mm wide.
Carcass (Internal shelf not included)
I'm thinking of using 18mm melamine furniture board for the construction (I could be convinced to use MDF/plywood if given needed) and I'm of course not wanting to have any screw holes showing from the sides etc.
How should I go about this? I can see 3 options

Wardrobe sides within footprint of top/bottom and screw in from above/below

Top/bottom within walls with screws through side - Can use plugs to cover screws etc

Same again with top/bottom within walls but this time secured with pocket hole screws

Internal shelf
My main concern here is whether I should add a shelf inside of one, tall carcass; or whether I should make 2 carcasses - a box to sit on top of the main carcass with the join acting as the shelf.
If I were to go down the route of the former option... How would be best to do this? Considering that the 1600mm width of the wardrobe is quite a large span... Pocket holes, those little shelf pins?

A:

The traditional, and least visually disruptive to the exterior appearance of your wardrobe, would be to mount the shelf inside a full height carcass.   If you do this, though, you want the construction method to allow you to put the shelf in after the carcass is fully constructed and stabilized.   If there isn't any reason for the shelf to be adjustable, and given that you're using "thick" material for the carcass (rather than rail and stile framed panels, e.g.) I would do this by having rails to support the shelf on the three unexposed sides of the shelf, and putting the shelf on top of these.    The long rail along the back of the carcass then gives you support for the long dimension of the shelf, which at 1600mm will be quite valuable.   If you're using a composite material like particle board or mdf for the shelf, or if the shelf is more than 20cm or so wide, you should also screw a rail to the front of the shelf, to stiffen it.
THe side rails should be screwed to the carcass.   Counterbore and plug the screws if you really want them hidden, but for an interior piece, it's not reallyl necessary.   Traditionally, one does not attach long rails like that to the back of a carcass, which is usually much thinner material, and in the age when most things were solid wood, would typically have long grain horizontal on the back, leading to unacceptable movement of an attached rail, or more likely, to the back splitting.   But if you're using a composite material for the back, this isn't a big problem and you could attach the rail to the back.   Or, just attach it with screws to the back ends of the side rails.  20mm X 30mm rails (in cross section) would be a good choice.

