Q:

What is a camber exactly?

I was reading about extendable tables I saw the word camber. What does it mean? What steps do I need to take to avoid it. I tried looking it up but the information was about aligning tires of a vehicle.
If someone can direct me to where I can enrich my knowledge on this issue while providing the woodworking definition that would be great.

A:

From Osborne Wood Products --

It is important to note that our table slides have a camber to them to compensate for the natural sag of the table. Choosing the incorrect type of slide for your table may accentuate the natural sag of the table.

In this context, camber is a hump or a dip that offsets the center sag or end sag of the table. (Tables with legs that move away from each other tend to sag in the middle. Tables supported centrally where the leaves move away will sag at the edges.) So, based on the design of your table, you'd opt for slides with one camber or another.

A:

The word "camber" is just a word, it means a slight convexity in a surface. So without context it's just wild guesses...
If you're talking about hand planes, it's a convex curve applied to the normally straight blade, in the plane of the blade. It can be achieved by grinding the blade into an arc. Image from toolsforworkingwood.com:

One of the reasons to do it is to eliminate ridges formed at the sides of the plane when planing large surfaces and/or make cutting easier. Whether it's something you really want to do or not seems to be a topic of debate, so I guess it comes down to personal preference.
There is a good article about it here and a nice video here.
Sometimes a good way to find better search results for ambigious topics is to include the general field you're looking for with the word. For example, "camber woodworking".
If you're not talking about hand planes then you need to provide more context. If you're talking about tables perhaps it meant angles on the legs or something. If you're talking about cars visit https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/.

