Q:

Is vertical storage of sheet goods causing my boards to warp?

I have a consistent problem with warped sheet goods, particularly plywood and MDF. They always seem flat when I buy them, but by the time I use them they are always curved or twisted. It's a source of constant frustration. Even 3/4" stuff gets a slight curve.
The way I've always stored everything is simply to lean piles of it against a wall. I don't have a lot of space.
After a recent comments discussion it dawned on me that this might be the problem:

Totally off topic, but how did the MDF warp in the first place? I have this problem where none of my MDF stays straight, and it frustrates me because all I hear about is how stable MDF is. – Jason C 
The piece was stored vertically and had leaned a bit in the storage rack causing a slight twist. – Ashlar

My question is: Could this be my problem? Can storing these sheets vertically be causing all the warping?
If so, is there a way to store sheet goods vertically without damaging them? I don't have the space to stack them horizontally.

A:

MDF is heavy and we all know that. Like keshlam says if it is not supported across its vertical span then it will pull itself down slowly warping it. Gravity is a [w]itch.
Now if you cannot store it perfectly vertical then you are not out of options. I couldn't imagine the space needed for some larger sheets however you should be able to get away from perfect verticals as long as you support it. A half a-frame comes to mind in an effort to take up less space. Idea being to discourage as much movement as possible. I could hang onto wood for years until I know what I am doing with it. This should be an efficient use of near vertical space. Depending on design you could hide boards inside the frame as well if you are not up to wasting space.  

Image from Orange County Crating
Lean the sheet but brace it as much as possible so as to not allow movement. I suppose if you are worried about the edges, which can damage easily, then you could put down some cloth along the bottom to cushion it.
Depending on the size of your sheets this might not be realistic though. Laying it flat also comes to mind but that is not something most workshops can entertain.

A:

If you lean stuff against a wall at an angle, it's weight will tend to cause it to bow. If you can stand it fully upright with support on both sides that will be less likely to happen. 
Or you can figure out a way to support it lower down, so the middle can't sag.
Or, of course, you can lay it flat if you have space to do so (most folks don't). 
Or delay buying until you're ready to use it, so it doesn't have time to pick up a bend.

A:

Moisture can add to this problem.  Do not let the wood come in contact with cement or concrete block.  They will need to be supported in the back and possibly held down in the front.  Even when stored horizontal they can warp if moisture is present.  In the lumber yard they come in banded together but a few day after they cut the bands the top sheets may start to warp.

