Q:

Strength of board from squared branches as opposed to trunk wood

I have a lot of well-dried branches and I was wondering whether it was possible to turn them into constructional lumber by gluing them together as follows:

cut them into equal length parts of about 20 / 30 cm
square them so they all have the same thickness (about as thick as a finger)
glue them all together in a brick pattern

Would this glued together board be as strong as plates from tree trunks? By which I mean: could it be use constructionally?
And if so, why aren't those kind of board produced on a large scale? I suppose it's better for the planet if only cut off branches are used.

A:

In basic outline there's no real problem with what you want to do, after all these days many panels are made in somewhat this way, except that the wood is from branches. 
Branch wood, unlike the majority of trunk wood, is nearly all what's called reaction wood so it has lots of internal stress. In branches the wood that originally was on top is in tension while the underside was under compression, and when these stresses are released by cutting and shaping you get signifiant warping issues. This is why branch wood isn't generally harvested commercially for use in any length, but is instead flaked, chipped or pulped e.g. for use in manufactured boards or for paper production.
It's certainly possible to utilise some of the wood from branches but not for this. Turning projects, stickmaking, tool handles and dowels or pegs are some of the possible uses for it.

A:

Structural lumber has continuous, well connected fibers running through the entire length of the board.  Cutting those cells into 30cm/11" segments will significantly decrease the overall strength of the board despite the overlap. The strength of such a composite beam would vary greatly depending upon the profile of the wood segmnts and the types of glue used, but would most likely be significantly weaker.
Your idea, however, closely matches the idea behind OSB (Oriented strand boards in which thin scraps of wood are pressed into a plywood sheet and used as sheathing in many buildings. OSB is not used in structural beams. On the other hand, engineered wood trusses made of laminated wood sheets (plywood) can be significantly stronger/more economic than standard wood studs and joists.  IN general, the wood industry wastes very little of the tree when it manufactures wood products.

