Q:

How do I shop for lumber to use in home wood working projects?

When I took wood working as a student, I learned to finish rough wood - cut it to rough size, joint it, plane it, rip and cross/cut on a table saw, etc.   As much as I'd love to own large versions of all these machines, it's not practical for the size of my home shop.
I looked around at my local home improvement store and none of the dimensional lumber was of the quality I'd want to use in a project like building children's furniture or enclosures for electronics projects - nothing looked straight or flat.
What should I expect when purchasing lumber to use in home wood working projects? Do most home wood workers buy rough material and use smaller machines to finish their wood, or should I expect to find a supplier who provides higher quality cut and finished lumber?

A:

It can very difficult to find wood that requires minimal milling, but it is possible. The tradeoff is that you may need to spend a lot of time searching through every board to find the one or two that are straighter than others.
Look for wide, 4/4 (1") or thicker boards with few knots. These come from larger trees and are generally more stable.
Look at the end grain, ideally searching for quartersawn material where the wood grain is perpendicular to the face (wide side) of the board.
Generally, the lumber used in construction is not suitable for fine woodworking without additional milling. Some home improvement stores also sell pre-glued panels and hardwood lumber (sometimes wrapped in plastic), but it usually costs significantly more than buying dimensional or rough-sawn lumber from a hardwood dealer.
If you do not have the tools to mill lumber on your own, call some local cabinet shops. Often they will sell you lumber and may even do some milling at little or no additional cost.  You can also buy your lumber directly from a local sawmill or hardwood dealer, and they will typically surface the lumber on 2 or more sides for a small additional charge.
If you're tight on space, hand milling your lumber is always an option. If you prefer power tools, you may also want to consider looking into a combination jointer/thickness planer. Also, depending on what you're building, you may be able to build jigs to do most of your milling. A taper/straight-line rip jig will do the edge jointing, and you can build a separate jig to joint the faces of boards to about 6" wide (assuming you have a 10" table saw and can raise the blade to a little over 3").
Also look into community shops and rental stores. If you live near a community college or university, they may have a wood shop with all the tools you need to mill your lumber. My local university offers daily or monthly options, and larger cities have MakerSpaces where you can buy a membership and use the equipment. There is also a Habitat for Humanity "ReStore" in a town near me which rents out all kinds of woodworking equipment (including table saws and planers), though you must first purchase an annual membership.

A:

Great question, Steve. I wish I'd had the wisdom to ask this before I got too into woodworking. I used to buy all my hardwood lumber at Home Depot for 4 times the cost! (I'm not exaggerating). Big box stores specialize in construction lumber so it's a very poor place to buy furniture-grade lumber. 
So I started shopping at a local hardwood dealer. (I'd do a search for hardwood dealers or lumber dealers in your area. If that doesn't work, you can always order online for marginally more expensive than what you could find locally). Most hardwood dealers offer "surfaced and straight-lined" lumber--meaning they surface both sides to be parallel and straight-line one side at 90 degrees. For several years, this was more than sufficient for my needs. The surfaces were almost perfectly flat and I just used my tuned up table saw to make the other edge straight. 
So that's what I'd recommend--find a local hardwood dealer that will surface and straight-line your lumber. Then all you need is a table saw (or even a bandsaw could work, provided you don't mind a few minutes of hand-planing). 
Eventually, however, you'll become a lumber snob and decide that the lumber yard's version of "surfaced" isn't up to par and you'll have to ask them to sell it to you "in the rough" and invest in the expensive tools for milling (i.e., jointer and planer). But, you'll probably have a few years, so start saving up! (Which will be a LOT easier now that you're not buying hardwoods from big box stores!)

A:

If you don't have much space and/or you want to avoid noise and dust, you could use hand tools. Of course it is way longer but you can do everything you could do with machine.
I'm not an expert myself but i usually buy some pretty good lumber and make them real flat with a handplane. With one good large handplane, you could do most of the job, although it's faster if you have 2 or 3 specialized handplanes that are ready for specific job.
You could also use handplane only when the lumber are too big and complete with a small planner as in this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z4ch9px_ZHk

