Q:

Best method for drilling a larger diameter hole at an angle

I spent the weekend making a simple wine rack out of cedar for my mother as a gift.
I drilled 1.5" holes in a cedar 2x6 to make something like this:

So to keep the bottles inverted (keep the cork wet) you have to drill down at a 45 degree angle or so.  I used a 1.5" bit to drill the holes but it was real sloppy and well it just didn't go great. 
So.  What is the best way to drill a 1.5"+ hole at an angle through a 2x6?

Recommended tools/bits (not looking for a brand obviously) should be included unless there is an easy way to do this free hand...

A:

Similar to bowlturner's answer, my answer depends on having access to a drill press. 
However, I suggest you use a few jigs. I've done similar projects, and the biggest problem is that a forstner bit tends to skate around when you're dealing with angles that steep. (There's nothing for the center point to grab into until you're 1/2 way through the piece.)
The jig below gets clamped to your drill press table, and consists of three parts:

an angled wedge that sets the angle for the hole.
a backer board to keep tear-out to a minimum and to keep from drilling into your wedge.
a wedge with a hole drilled in it that guides the forstner bit and keeps it from moving around.

How do you make the wedge? Simple- take a square block (or make a square block from two smaller pieces) and drill a hole with the forstner bit. Then take that piece to the band saw, turn it up on edge, and slice from one corner to the other, at an angle the same as you want to duplicate.
Slide the whole contraption together, clamp it securely to your drill press table, and drill away.

You might have to clamp this to the edge of your drill press table, so that the workpiece can hang below the table for holes further up the workpiece.

A:

Personally, I would use my drill press. The bed will tilt to any angle and then you just clamp the board to the bed.  You would need a piece of waste wood under the board so not to put the bit into the metal bed.
I think Forstner bits would be the better idea for doing this though using a spade bit might be possible, if you lower it slow enough, I don't think I'd recommend it.
45 degrees is pretty steep for a hand held drill, but by starting it and slow tilting the drill to the correct angle while keeping the tip in the wood might give you something close to what you are looking for, but I'd stick with a drill press, much safer and more accurate.

A:

As bowlturner mentioned, a drill press with a Forstner bit is the first solution that comes to mind.
If you don't have a drill press, another solution is to cut the corner off a block of scrap wood at a 45-degree angle. Use a brad point, auger, or twist bit to drill straight through the newly-cut end, and clamp it to your workpiece for each hole. If you've ever used a Kreg pocket hole jig, this is basically the same concept.
Edit: after I clicked Submit to post my answer I noticed that TX Turner posted a somewhat similar solution for the drill press at about the same time as me. The guide block I'm suggesting is different in that it's a little easier to clamp since you're clamping flat pieces together instead of wedges. You can also use any flat backer board to prevent blowout, and you can easily register it against stop blocks on your workpiece for more precise hole placement.

