Q:

Is a natural edge actually natural, or is it a man-made feature?

In the past I've seen many beautiful pieces making use of a "natural edge", such as this: https://www.houzz.com/photos/44117627/Live-Edge-Conference-Table-rustic-dining-tables.  Other examples:

The term natural edge seems to be applied to the very bumpy organic shape of the edge, which is different from live edge which refers to the slab going up to the bark or cambium layer.  I always assumed these went together, but now that I'm looking to give something like this a try and have been looking at live edge wood slabs to purchase, I've noticed that the edge seems relatively flat under the bark; or at least it doesn't have nearly as much variation as show in the photos.  Especially once the bark is peeled off with a draw knife.  Though I've only really looked at a few species of local trees.
Is there term live edge actually referencing a natural feature that some woods have?  Or is it a term that actually refers to an artificially chiseled edge made to look organic?  How does one create a table with a natural edge like this?

A:

Live edge furniture refers to the inclusion of the unsquared, natural edge of a tree in the lumber being used for a piece. Typically this is the sapwood with the bark removed. In standard lumber this edge is milled off. 
In general bark is actually hard to keep on the wood as it expands and contracts at a different rate to the wood it's attached to, so therefore tends to detach over time. The sapwood is the actual "living" part of a tree and encompasses the outermost ring through which nutrients travel. Sapwood is generally a lighter color that the heartwood (inner rings) and therefore is preferred to add an accent to the piece being produced. Sapwood inclusion in dimensional lumber (read squared edges) usually denotes lower quality lumber.
A piece of lumber that includes 2 live edges is typically referred to as a slab, although a very wide piece of wood can also be referred to as such without the live edges. Hence, slab tables often are a table made from the cross section of a tree with the bark removed but maintaining the 2 live edges. The angle of the live edge can be used to get a general idea of what part of the layered cross section the piece came from. The more parallel the edge, the more central the slab. The more angled the edge, the more peripheral the cut. This can also be seen in the grain pattern of the end grain, as it will invariably reflect the angle of the edge.

