Q:

How does one measure stock for miter cuts?

I have tried unsuccessfully to make picture frames on a few occasions.  I find that when I am trying to make a miter joint, I err on the side of caution and start "long" and trim my way down to square.  I feel like this is not the best way to execute a miter joint for a picture frame.  
What is the proper way to measure for a miter joint?  Are you supposed to measure your stock from the outside of the miter (outer edge) or the inside corner of the miter?  Are there any helpful tips on this process to make it easier?

A:

I was taught to measure to the inside (mainly because it was important to fit the frame to the glass, which went on the inside) and to cut via a mitre box to the outside of the line marked, that is is to say, less than half mm proud of the full length. Then take a shooting board and trim with a nice tuned hand plane. In practice, you can skip the mitre box if you a have a very fine tooled saw, but I still use the handplane and shooting board. 
This article from Popular Woodworking may be helpful: http://www.popularwoodworking.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/ShootingBoard2.pdf
Years ago I bought a Jorgensen compound miter saw that I am still quite happy with (although it is no guarantee as to the worth of the current crop). I still use a shooting board with board cut on that saw as well. 

A:

Often in woodworking the best practice is to cut slightly over the final size, then sneak up on the final dimension.
One great solution for getting perfect miter joints is to use a miter sled. Once you build the sled, you'll be able to cut square miters every time.
Here are some examples:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H00prACPflw
http://www.woodsmithshop.com/download/511/table-saw-miter-sled.pdf

But what about the actual lengths of the pieces? Use stop blocks clamped to the fences of your miter sled to cut multiple pieces to exactly the same length. Presumably you have a rabbet cut into the back so you can insert the glass (if using glass), photo, and backing. Don't measure from the outside corner of a miter joint or the inside corner, but rather from what will become the outer edge of the rabbet. Be sure to make your frame slightly larger than the glass (if using glass) and the photo or mat that you'll be inserting into it.
Common picture frame sizes are 4x6, 5x7, 8x10...notice a pattern?  That's right, the short sides are 2" shorter than the long sides. Make a 2"x2" square spacer to help set up for the shorter sides after you cut the long sides.

