Q:

Minimum bend radius for hardboard

I'm designing a pirate treasure chest out of stained/varnished softwood.  All the best pirates have brass-bound treasure chests, and I'll be using brass fittings, reclaimed decorative ones if possible.
Rather than real brass-binding though I'd spray-paint hardboard, but how tight can I bend it for the domed top?  I'm expecting a radius of about 180 mm (depth 360 mm).  This would be the normal 3-ish mm hardboard sold in UK DIY shops, and I've got plenty of time on my hands to bend it wet and let it dry, but I don't want it to crack.  I reckon it would crack if I tried to bend this radius dry.
Here's a model (Inventor) of what I'm intending to build (without handles/latch).  All the flat "brass" is hardboard (real brass is either heavy and expensive or thin enough to have sharp edges).  The visible screw heads (I'm not sure how many I'll use yet) are decorative (no.8 x 1/2" slotted brass) with structural screws and glue hidden under the bands. 

Its 480mm (W) x 360mm (D) x 575mm (H)

A:

I finally got the time to try this out today.  Dry was hopeless, but damp worked well (as suggested by descriptions like this one).
I cut a couple of strips of the size I intend to use (22 mm wide by 600 mm long).  The intended shape is just over a half-circle, radius 180 mm.  
The first I tried to bend  dry.  I was planning to bend it part way then leave it for a while, but it snapped before I got even half way.
The second I brushed with water, mainly on the smooth face. A few minutes later I gently bent it (hung over a bar with some plastic clamps as weights.  After about half an hour I bent it to near enough the required shape, clamped it, and left it to dry for a few hours.  It held its shape when I released the clamps.  It needed a light sand, especially where the water had soaked in to the cut edges, but after that is as good as new. 

Update after finishing the job: It worked well, but the cut edges were raised and roughened more than I thought, and needed more sanding/undercoating/fine sanding than I expected.  The gold spray paint I used comes up a sparkly silver rather than a smooth(ish) gold if the surface is even slightly rough.  But the job is finished (I'm a little disappointed with my craftsmanship in places but overall it should go down very well):

