Q:

Bending wood and resin

I’m trying to figure out the best way to make this project. I have a project that I have already cut out on my CNC machine, but each end needs to be bent upwards about 15 degrees. I don’t have a press so I’ll have to soak the wood and place it in a mold. This is something I’ve done on a smaller scale before; however, on this project I need to lay down a few layers of carbon fiber and epoxy resin.
My question is: without a press, when should I perform the bending? Can I do it the same way with all the pieces attached, or do I have to bend the wood first then try and put on the carbon fiber and resin?
I’ve never really worked with resin or carbon fiber before, so this is all new to me. Although this isn’t exactly what I’m doing, here is the best image I could find online that represents my project:

I have a 3/4” paulownia wood core, and will need two layers on both top and bottom of carbon fiber (or fiberglass with a small patch of carbon fiber to strengthen the center) sealed down with TotalBoat marine epoxy resin on the top and bottom. Around the edges will be Simpakt urethane resin.
Right now I just have the basic shape cut out, but I still need to do a lot of design and throw it back on the CNC to get the final shape.

A:

Can I do it the same way with all the pieces attached, or do I have to bend the wood first then try and put on the carbon fiber and resin?

The latter. If you try to apply carbon fiber and resin before bending, then soaking the workpiece won't work, as the resin will prevent the moisture from reaching the wood.
Also, as you bend the wood, the surface of the wood will either compress or elongate. Fabrics like carbon fiber and fiberglass are useful largely because their incredible tensile strength lets them resist stretching; when you apply them along with resin to a surface like your workpiece, they make the surface very rigid. If you add the carbon fiber to your workpiece first, you either won't be able to bend it at all (most likely), or you'll cause the carbon fiber layer to delaminate from your workpiece.

