Q:

Usage of "estar com"

I have seen estar com [noun] frequently and think I grasp the meaning: 

When a living creature esta com an abstract object (like cold or thirst), they feel it; and 
with other objects, they have temporary possession.

However, I am not clear on when it can or should be used. Here is an example:**

Eu estou com a sua TV.

I read this as "I have your TV." Could I use Eu tenho a sua TV instead? Coming from Spanish, that sounds a lot more natural to me. If I can use it, does it carry a different meaning? More generally, in which cases is one (of estar com and ter) a good fit, while the other is ungrammatical or sounds unnatural?
** I took the example from a Brazilian Portuguese course on Duolingo.

A:

"Eu estou com a sua TV" means "I've got your TV"― probably I borrowed it from you and didn't give it back to you yet. Or you forgot you left it in my house, and I'm reminding you.
If I say "Eu tenho a sua TV" (I have your TV), it would sound like I stole it or took it away from you and now it's in my possession. In my experience, it would also sound strange, and people use "estou com" more often.
You can also use it when you want to say that there's someone else with you, like in this conversation:

―Você está sozinho? (Are you alone?)
―Não, estou com meu irmão. (No, I'm with my brother)

A:

The estar com construction is much more common than the transliteration to be with in English (although it does also mean that).
In many cases it is better translated idiomatically as have.  This tends to occur more for something temporary than fixed ones; much like ser/estar, but it's a less concrete rule. Generally ter is used to indicate possession; as a general rule, where an English "I have..." couldn't be logically substituted for "I possess...", it's more likely that you'd use "Estou com..." than "Tenho...".
In many cases "estar com" will be much more common, but ter isn't wrong per se, just a little stilted and old-fashioned sounding. 
Examples:
For things on your person:

"Você está com a chave?"
  
  "Do you have the key?"

For things you "have" that aren't yours.

"Ainda estou com o livro dele"
  
  "I still have his book"

Many adjectives in English only have a noun in Portuguese, for example, in Portuguese you cannot "be thirsty", only "have thirst".
For feelings or emotions expressed with a noun

"estou com medo."
  
  "I'm afraid." ("I am with fear" > "I have fear")
"Estou com esperança que vai dar certo"
  
  "I'm hopeful that everything will work out"

For descriptions of temporary characteristics which use nouns (usually these are achieved with adjectives in English).

"Estou com fome"
  
  "I'm hungry"
"O meu celular está sem bateria"
  
  "My phone is out of battery"

(This applies to Brazilians; I think ter might be more common in Portugal.)

