Q:

How do I know how to pronounce an "exa-" prefix (e.g. hexágono, exabyte, exame)?

According to thefreedictionary, Numerical Prefixes seem to have come from Latin or Greek, but in Portuguese if you read "exa" it should sound like an esha (e.g. "oxalá" is pronounced as oshalah). Notice that the x in Portuguese seems to only have the gz sound in these cases (when there is an "exa" prefix, not when it belongs to the word itself, as in "exame"). 
However, Portuguese people pronounce "exa" as English people pronounce "exa", which has the exact same sound.
Therefore, why the prefix wasn't changed to the letters that most closely resemble it's real sound in Portuguese: ècsa or egza?
Examples:

exabyte could be written in Portuguese as écsabaite or égzabaite
hexagon could be written as egzágono
exame could be written as ezame (notice that there is no "exa" prefix)
exa could be egza

A:

Phonetics
Your assumption about the expected regular sound of x is wrong.
We have many different sounds for x in Portuguese:

z (/z/) - "exame", same as zebra in English;
cs (/ks/) - "táxi", same as taxi in English;
ch (/ʃ/) - "deixa", same as geisha in English;
ss (/s/) - "máximo", same as massing in English;

Invalid alternative spellings
You could not write écsabaite, egzágono or egza because "ec", "csa", "eg", or "gza" are not valid syllables in Portuguese.
Those words cannot be split into valid syllables.

A:

It seems to me your assumption that 

in Portuguese if you read "exa" it should sound like an esha (e.g.
  "oxalá" is pronounced as oshalah).

isn't correct. I can think of a few words containing exa that are pronounced the same way as hexágono, like exato (and its variants like exatamente, exatidão), examinar, exalar (the free dictionary has no entry for that word, only for exalar cheiro).
Perhaps a more adequate question would be "How do I know how to pronounce exa- prefix?".

A:

The letter x is very versatile indeed, and takes quite a few sounds in Portuguese. Here are a few rules as to how it sounds, which will cover quite a few, maybe most, words.
Letters ex followed by consonant: in Portugal and Rio the x sounds ʃ as in ashamed if followed by unvoiced consonant (as in explicar) and Ʒ as in pleasure if followed by a voiced consonant (as in ex-marido). Elsewhere in Brazi the x generally sounds s insteas of ʃ and z instead of Ʒ. These are actually the rules that also apply to the pronunciation of the letter s when followed by consonant. You can see a question and answers on this topic here and learn a simple test to identify voiced and unvoiced consonants here. Bu If you don’t know about voiced and unvoiced consonants don´t worry: your vocal system will automatically take care of that for you.
Words starting with maxi like maxilar, maximal: ks as maximum, with at least on exception: in máximo the sound is s as in classmate.
Words with the suffix ixo or ixa and derivations, like prolixo, prolixamente: ks again.
Words starting with ex followed by vowel like exame, existir, exoesqueleto: z as in *maze. This includes words with the prefix exo that you mention (comes from Greek, meaning out, outside).
Words starting with hexa (meaning six). Now for the surprise. Priberam gives both z and gz as possible pronunciations! Dicionário da Academia das Ciências de Lisboa gives gz as the only pronunciation. But — I’m with the other native speakers here. I don’t recall having heard any such word pronounced with a gz, and I certainly don’t do it myself.
The words above mostly came late into the Portuguese language from Latin and Greek. Most other words with x in it (unless I’m forgetting an important class) are older and more everyday words, and the x sounds ʃ. Most words. There are lots of exptions.

