Q:

Why is Algeria called "Argélia" and Algiers called "Argel" in Portuguese?

Note the swapping of R and L. Given that the name of the country is derived from the name of the city, and the English name matches the Arabic name "al-Jazā’er" more closely, when and why did the swap occur in the formation of the Portuguese name of these places?

A:

Actually, one of our users, João de Barros, might know the answer. Being a famous historian, he already wrote "Argel" for the city Algiers in 1552. Here is the original¹

(Decadas da Aſia (1552). Liuro ſexto, Fo. 58)
¹ courtesy of John Carter Brown Library via archive.org
Whether this was him following or starting a trend, or whether it was just one of his L ↔ R typos

which he didn't correct, is not clear. You could try asking him in chat, though =)

A:

I don't have any concrete evidence about the history of that particular name, but sound changes (metaplasms) of this sort are a a very common phenomenon in language evolution. 
This change from to /l/ or /r/ (or from/to similar allophones) is known as rhotacism. Look for example at words such as praça and praia. They have the same origin as the Spanish words plaza and playa, and suffered rhotacism at some point. 
In Brazil, some dialects, specially the "caipira" speak, frequently changes /l/ to /r/ (usually for a retroflex /r/ such as /ɹ/), using "farta" for falta and so on. 

A:

De acordo com este autor a origem desta diferença vem da interpretação que os primeiros falantes do Português fizeram ao ouvir palavras estrangeiras. Especialmente neste caso em que o alfabeto local era diferente do nosso. 

Essas variantes são extremamente comuns quando se trata de lugares descobertos ou
  visitados há centenas de anos. Nossos antepassados interpretaram à sua
  moda os nomes estranhos que ouviram ― friso: apenas ouviram, porque a
  escrita, geralmente em alfabetos exóticos, não entrava aqui em
  cogitação ― e assim fixaram-se certos nomes que destoam dos que são
  utilizados por outros países.

