Q:

Using a tool or technique: usar? utilizar? empregar?

I've been told before, by a Portuguese speaker, not to use the verb usar  to describe using a tool. They told me to use utilizar instead. I've also seen empregar used in similar situations.
Which of those verbs are appropriate for referring to using a tool, technique, or word or phrase? Which are more commonly used for this? Do they have different connotations when used in this way? Is there a better alternative that I've missed?
When I check a dictionary, it looks to me like all three could work. I can't tell the difference from the definitions I found (unrelated definitions not included below):

usar

Pôr em uso, pôr em prática. (Usa-se também com a preposição de.)

Empregar, servir-se de.

utilizar

Servir-se de.
Empregar utilmente.
Sacar partido de; aproveitar.

empregar

Fazer uso de; servir-se de; gastar, despender; preencher.

(Please feel free to respond in either Portuguese or English. I didn't feel that I could express this question correctly in Portuguese, by its nature.)

A:

As André pointed out, usar and utilizar are synonyms in the context you described, so I can only speculate why your friend told you to use utilizar instead of usar.
I believe your friend was not correcting your grammar, he just meant to give you a style advice. Portuguese formal writing style tend to favor the use of larger, more sophisticated words instead of short, more common ones. That's sort of contrary to English writing style guides I know, which tend to favor smaller words for a more concise writing. 
In any case, using usar is perfectly acceptable in this context. Choosing utilizar over usar seems to me like a matter of style.

A:

In brazilian portuguese, in the context you mention (usage of an object of any kind), and when used alone, these verbs are exact synonyms. Utilizar and empregar are slightly more formal, and that's all.

A:

EDIT (Sept 27th, 2015) My answer refers to these three words as they are used in Brazil, in the spoken language.
Nada como dar exemplos:

Eu uso um alicate ou um martelo. Se eu utilizar um alicate, serei chamado de pedante.  Se eu empregar um martelo, serei motivo de risos.
Eu emprego ou uso vários termos estrangeiros quando falo, mas não os utilizo.
O que a senhora utilizou ou usou para tirar a mancha?
Eu uso o meu computador diariamente. Eu o utilizo para fazer impressos e convites.

A escolha entre USAR/UTILIZAR/EMPREGAR é dependente daquilo que se vai USAR/UTILIZAR/EMPREGAR. 

