Q:

How do we translate "3P vs. 1P" into Brazilian Portuguese financial/business/sales terms?"

I know what it means in English, but I need to explain this next week to a group of Brazilian Portuguese speakers only and since I don't know how it's more commonly used in Brazil, perhaps someone here can help me. For instance, how do I put this into Brazilian Portuguese:

Pricing: 3P vs. 1P – deep understanding of pricing

Do by category
Where do the sites overlap, and where don’t they? When does price matter less? When more?
Will 1P cannibalize 3P?  Does it depend on category, How does a merchant decide?
How do they handle 3P delivery?

I don't need a literal translation. If you need to elaborate a bit into Portuguese to make the translation better, that will totally suffice the need.

A:

1P can be translated as venda direta. It literally means "direct sale": a company selling directly to its consumers.
3P can be "translated" as Marketplace. I know, it's not in Portuguese, but it's the word being used by B2W (and other players) to describe a system where a third-party sells the product using another party's infrastructure:

O B2W Marketplace é uma plataforma que permite que você venda seus produtos nas vitrines da Americanas.com, Submarino e Shoptime. A B2W funciona como um mediador entre você e o cliente, oferecendo o tráfego mais qualificado da internet brasileira e a melhor experiência de compra.
Free translation: B2W Marketplace is a platform that allows you to sell your products at Americanas.com, Submarino and Shoptime. B2W works as a mediator between you and the client, offering the most qualified traffic of brazilian internet and the best shopping experience.

Notes:

In the corporate world (at least in Brazil) it's very common to use English words to describe something instead of trying to find a proper translation. And it seems to be the case with Marketplace - I believe that's because Amazon also uses this word and nobody could find a good translation to Portuguese.
I've also seen Programa de afiliados being used, by I think it works in a different way if compared to a Marketplace. And I think that Marketplace fits better to Amazon's definition.
I think it also depends on your audience (if the term is familiar to them). If it's not the case, you can use venda por terceiros (third party sales). Although I personally don't like it, I believe you'll be understood.

