Q:

How to translate "committed" to Portuguese in a technical documentation?

The word commit (substantive) refers to changes in source code that a software programmer puts into some repository. It's a technical term and in general we don't want to translate it while writing technical documentation.
However, often we use that word as a verb, like in committed or to commit. For instance, suppose I have these sentences:

The code was committed.
I'm talking about the committed code.

Possible translations could be:

O código foi enviado ao repositório.
Estou falando do código que foi comitado.

The former uses only Portuguese words, but I feel it loses its correlation with the term commit. The latter is a neologism (creates a new word) and looks strange in a formal document.
Is there a proper way to translate those sentences while keeping them referring to the original term, commit?

A:

It looks to me that to commit code to the commit means to place the code in the commit and safely keep it there, as in committing someone to prison or hospital. So it appears to me that you’ll really have to choose between a neologism and a word that does not sound like commit. We can safely dispose of cometer: it doesn’t work in this context. But here’s an idea that may be better than enviar.

Depositar; depositei o código; o código está depositado; falo do código depositado.

This draws mainly on the meaning of depositar as placing and keeping valuables in a bank. It works better than enviar, because you cannot simply say enviei o código or o código está enviado, especially as enviar means to send only, not to keep. Eventually you might even substitute depósito for repositório and have a single word family.
You might want to consider armazenar or guardar. These work just like depositar in the examples above, but somehow I don't like them as much.

A:

I'm a system developer, and when it comes to code, I've never seen anyone translating "commit".
We usually say  "fazer o commit" (do the commit) or just turn it into a verb: "comitar" ("eu comitei", "vou comitar", and so on)

