Q:

Difference between imperfeito, pretérito perfeito, and pretérito perfeito/imperfeito do indicativo?

What is the different meanings of the past verb tenses in (Brazilian) Portuguese? I understand the general idea that the perfect preterite describes an action that completed in the past and the imperfect preterite describes a habitual or ongoing action, but I am really confused about the difference between something like 'estava chovendo' and 'chovia.'
Both seem to describe an ongoing action in the past, but I have a vague feeling that the first is like a one-time occurrence and the second describes something that tended to occur pretty often. Is there a correspondence to past forms in French, like 'j'avais eu' (I had had previously), 'j'avais' (I had), and 'j'ai eu' (I had had)?
For example:
Perfect preterite: choveu (it rained) describes a complete action that occurred in the past.
Imperfect preterite: chovia (it was raining)
Indicative perfect preterite: estava chovendo (it was raining)
Indicative imperfect preterite: choveu, same as standard imperfect preterite?
Here's another example: vinham/vieram/estavam vindo.
I am not sure the above labels are even correct, that is just my understanding from a grammatical book I have been trying to use.

A:

Your feeling is pretty much correct. Estava chovendo refers to a particular occasion or a particular point in time, such as the moment I left home:

Quando eu saí de casa, estava chovendo muito [when I left home, it was raininig a lot]

You could in this example say “chovia muito”, but you’re more likely to find that in literature than in colloquial speech. But if you mean something that used to happen ― not just at one particular point in time ― then you use chovia:

Quando eu era criança, chovia mais do que agora [when I was a child it used to rain more than nowadays]

It’s the same with estavam vindo, vinham

Eles estavam vindo para casa quando eu os encontrei [they were coming home when I met them]
Eles vinham cá muitas vezes [They used to come here often]

More examples:

Eu estava lendo, e então faltou a luz [I was reading, and then the lights went out]
Dantes eu lia o jornal todos os dias [I used to read the newspaper every day]
Eu estava correndo, tropecei e caí [I was running, tripped and fell]
Quando eu era mais novo, corria 10 km in 30 minutes [When I was younger I would run 10 km in 30 minutes]
Eu estava gostando do livro, mas perdi o interesse no capítulo 10 [I was enjoying the book, but lost interest in chapter 10]
Em criança eu não gostava de couves [When I was child I wouldn’t like cabbage]

I’m pretty sure there will be lots of complications, but this is the gist of it.

