Q:

What are the correct expressions?

I am only a beginner in Portuguese. I have seen some different expressions for "they are going to fall down to the ground" in the Portuguese language. Which ones of these mentioned below are OK and which are wrong? Could you also explain if there are any differences in the meanings themselves between those different prepositions used and phrases?

Cairão ao chão
Cairão no chão
Cairão sobre chão
Cairão até chão
Cairão por chão

A:

The verb cair is a quite versatile one, having different meanings for each context:

"Cairão ao chão" is correct and means they will fall to the ground. The usage of "ao", although correct, is unusual among Brazilian Portuguese speakers. It might be unusual among European Portuguese speakers, as well. You can definitely use it, though.
"Cairão no chão" is also correct, and also means they will fall to the ground. This is the preferred form in spoken language, and also in informal contexts. 
"Cairão sobre o chão" is correct, but it doesn't mean they will fall to the ground. Instead, it is a very specific use that means from where they will stand, you will see the ground. For instance, an architect might use it to tell his clients that, once built, their apartments will have a view to the ground, instead of the beautiful ocean nearby. Note that I emphasized the article "o", it is always required when "o chão" is supposed to mean "the ground". It might be unusual in Europe (not sure).
"Cairão até o chão" is not recognized by grammarists and dictionaries, but is somewhat common in Brazilian Portuguese informal contexts. It means "they will fall all the way to the ground", implying that the fall itself will be a rather long or painful process. In some regions (namely Brazilian southeast), it can also mean they will party hard among the younger speakers. 
"Cairão por chão" is grammatically wrong. However, there's a very similar, idiomatic expression: "cairão por terra" (terra also conveys "ground"), which means they will fail, they will not succeed. Note there's no article used in this expression.

It was not included in the question, but using future tense like this is unusual in spoken language. Native speakers prefer "vão cair no chão", implying future tense with the help of the verb "ir" ("to go"), especially when the fall is imminent or certain. This would be the most accurate translation for "they are going to fall to the ground", instead of "they will fall to the ground". That being said, there is nothing wrong with "cairão", and it is the preferred form in written language. 

