Q:

Equivalent expression for "save for the rainy days"

The expression "save for the rainy days" talks about saving resources for times of scarcity.
Is there any equivalent expression in Portuguese?

A:

There's an expression in Portuguese (brazilian, afaik) which is

Tempo de vacas magras

This can be literally translated as "Time of thin cows". It means exactly that it's a period with scarce resources, and it's a saying rather than a direct translation. I think it can be used in the context you mentioned, so:

Guardar para o tempo de vacas magras.

As a real example, check this news article which quotes Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff:

...a presidente Dilma Rousseff afirmou a integrantes da Frente
Nacional de Prefeitos que este ano será de "vacas magras". De acordo
com relatos de quem participou do encontro, a petista lembrou ainda
que o contingenciamento do orçamento "será grande"...

Which can be translated as

... president Dilma Rousseff said to members of the Mayors National
Front that this year will be of "vacas magras".  According to
statements of the event's attendants, the petista also noted
that the budget contingency "will be large".

Edit:
As pointed out by @ANeves in the comments, the inverse expression also exists:

Tempo de vacas gordas

In that case, it means that a period has plenty resources. It's usually used in the context of highlighting that, even though the resources are/were plenty, they might not always be like that, so care should be taken or that this should be considered in whatever is being analyzed or described. For example:

Ele estava muito rico no ano passado, mas era um tempo de vacas gordas.
He was very rich last year, but it was a time of  fat cows.

A:

Seria "Poupar para os dias ruins" ou "Poupar para os dias maus".
Era o que a formiga fazia e a cigarra não, no conto da Formiga e da Cigarra.

A:

You could use:

Portuguese: Guardar para época de vacas magras
English: Save for the slender cow season

Or

Portuguese: Poupar para o dia de amanhã
English: Save for tomorrow

Don't be confuse for similar jargons like

Guardar debaixo do colchão (store under your bed)
Seguro morreu de velho (Insurance died from old age)

Those can be used to similar situations, but it's not as accurate translation of what you want

