Q:

Is it acceptable to substitute "ter" for "haver" or "existir" in formal contexts?

Prescriptivists have often criticized the widespread use of verb “ter” in Brazil, when you really mean “haver” or “existir”.  

Tem gente que não sabe como…
Tem alguém aí fora
Tem muito tempo que...
Tem três anos que eu...
Tinha uma menina na minha turma que...
Tem mais estrelas no céu do que...

I’ve never paid attention to this before and cannot recall whether the Portuguese have the same verbal habit. My question is: 
1.Is it acceptable in formal writing? For example, when writing a composition for an examination. 
2.Is one likely to be frowned upon if they say "tem uma coisa que eu gostaria de dizer a todos os presentes" at a formal speech?
3.Is there any region in Brazil where people rarely use "ter" in such contexts?
4.Do people ever use it anywhere in Portugal?
Edit: An answer to this question can be partially found in Há muito a considerar. --- Haver vs Ter 

A:

I'm not a linguist, but I'll try to answer your question from a native speaker's point of view. Also, since I'm not Portuguese, I don't think I'm in a position to answer your fourth question. As for the other three...
To begin with, "tem muito tempo que eu..." and "tem três anos que eu..." don't sound particularly informal. Most of the time, people will use the verb "fazer" in this context ("faz muito tempo que eu...", "faz três anos que eu..."), so using "ter" in these cases is actually sort of uncommon. As for your other examples, "ter" is clearly the informal option, whereas "haver" sounds a lot more formal.
With that in mind, this usage of "ter" with the meaning of "haver" should be avoided in formal writing, and it would seem "off" in a composition. However, in a speech, even a formal one, this does not sound so weird. Of course, this depends on how formal the situation is and on the tone you want to convey. For instance, if you have to deliver a formal speech, but you want to sound accessible or open to the audience, this would probably be OK. In your example, "tem uma coisa que eu gostaria de dizer a todos os presentes" sounds pretty OK if this is to be said in a formal speech at a wedding or a formal dinner, for instance, or maybe if this is a thank-you speech you're thinking of. If you're thinking of a more formal ceremony, maybe you should be a litlle bit more cautious.
As to your third question, as far as I know, this usage of "ter" is widespread in Brazil. I don't think there is any region where this is uncommon.

