Q:

The expression "pois é"?

I live in São Paulo although I'm an American and teach English here. One of my most troublesome questions is how to translate "pois é"?? Google gives me YEAH, or IT IS. Are there broader or more subtle translations? More idiomatic usage?

A:

"Pois é" is an interjection phrase and its translation depends pretty much on context.  Basically it expresses confirmation or resignation, or both simultaneously. Sometimes it's just a filler. Other times you'd better ignore it in a translation work. In pt-BR you're likely to find it in sentences such as:

(a) "Não se pode mais fazer bater nos filhos?"
(b) "Pois é, agora as coisas mudaram."  ("That's it", "that's true", "yes, you're right" or simply "yes").

(a) "Vamos ou não vamos ter um aumento salarial?"
(b) "Pois é, conforme eu havia dito na reunião anterior, a situação financeira da empresa está indefinida no momento e..." ("pois é" here sounds more like a filler, something like "vejam só" or "olhem". It may be translated as "you see", "look here", "well").

(a) "Que droga de tempo.  Chuva o tempo todo."
(b) "Pois é". (agreed, I agree, exactly, said with regret) — In this example, intonation is everything so that it may even sound like "told you" or "too bad".

(a) "Você está dizendo que ele morreu?"
(b) "Pois é, morreu ontem". (exactly, yes, that's it).

As I've said before, "pois é" is an interjection phrase that expresses confirmation or resignation. More frequently it can be translated into English as "yes", "agreed", "exactly", "it's true", "you're right", that's it".  Remember that interjections are unique in that more often than not you can hardly find a perfect translation, especially in the written language where stress and intonation are absent.
NB

When in Portugal, beware of "pois", "pois é", "ora pois", "ora pois pois". These are used much more frequently in pt-PT than in pt-BR, sometimes as a filler, and with different meanings.
Don't confuse "pois é" (interjection) with "pois é" (two words meaning "porque é"). Example:

"O empreendedorismo é essencial nas sociedades, pois é  (porque é) através dele que as empresas buscam a inovação."

To be more precise, "pois é", the same way as "muito bem!", "que alívio", "é isso aí, mano", "nossa mãe!", "de jeito nenhum", etc. is an interjection phrase, in the sense that it has the meaning of a complete sentence and is thus understood.

