Q:

How is “hue hue” actually pronounced in (Brazilian) Portuguese?

This question is coming from the meme about Brazilian players supossedly spamming “huehuehue” in some game. On urbandictionary, it says that’s the Brazilian way to express the sound of laughter. However, it doesn’t say how it is pronounced or whether it is solely written that way by Brazilians.
I don’t know any Portuguese, so I was wondering:

Do the Portuguese also write “hue hue hue”?
How do Brazilians and Portuguese pronounce it?
In English it’s “ha ha” or “he he”, why is there a “u” in “hue hue”?

A:

Adding to what Eduardo said, "hue hue" isn't the Brazilian way to express the sound of laughter, it's only one of the many textual laughs Brazilians use. 
"Hue hue hue", pronounced somewhat this way and explained in details below, is the, exclusively Brazilian, laugh of "zoeira". "Zoeira" means joking, making fun of things.
Additionally, "hue" can also be a typo from the "heu heu heu" laugh. 
But hue can also be more than just an internet laughing, it can also be considered as a concept.
As hue's foundation, it's said by Brazilians that "the zoeira has no limits" and "the zoeira never ends". There's the word "hueragem" that is the practice of doing "hue" things. So basically hueragem is the Brazilian "skill" of making fun of everything that is possible to make of, be that verbally (like joking) or practically (like causing a mess on a social network page or online game, etc.), just for fun, and never knowing when to stop.
Usually (or most of the times) it's used in an international context, like in an online game, Brazilians directly joking someone of another country, etc., in which "hueragem" means the practice of doing hue things specifically by Brazilians to people of another nationality, causing people from these countries to create bad stereotypes about the Brazilians, known, at least in online games, by their mark: the "hue hue hue" laugh.
Some examples of hueragens:
Tyler James Willians being spammed with quotes from "Everybody Hates Chris" by Brazilians. 
Brazilians spamming Grammy's page with indications for the singer Inês Brasil (this resulted in a ban)
Bad habits in games by Brazilians

But please keep in mind however, that these behaviors are disapproved by many Brazilians, being considered a shame/embarrassment these people cause Brazil to take because of them. And the others just find these funny.

Pronunciation
The "hue hue" laughing mixes the phonetics of both English (H) and Portuguese (U and E).
H
Every (yes, every) textual laughing Brazilians use that start with an H, the H is pronounced just like in English (like in "hat", or IPA /h/). 
"But if the Brazilian Portuguese R (as in "rato") is pronounced the same way, why not to use it instead of H that is mute in Portuguese?" you may ask. Well, most of Brazilians don't really like laughs that start with this sound to be spelled with an R (like "Ra Ra Ra"), we find that "too Portuguese" (language) or maybe "too correct", and prefer much more using an H for that sound. (Note: this only applies for laughs, nothing more than that.)
U
Pronounced like the IPA /u/, or like the U in "empanturrado".
E
The E, pronounced like the E in "comer" or IPA /e/, is the stressed vowel in "hue".
Adding it all up, "hue" would be pronounced something like /hu'e/. It can also be pronounced like /hw'e/.

A:

It is merely an intentionally "retarded" way of laughing, as when such players are really having fun with such attitude. That's why you see memes with a "retarded" facial expression for laughing.

