Q:

Should I use "vir" or "vim" for infinitive form of "to come" in Brazil?

I was surprised to hear many people in Brazil use "vim" instead of "vir" for the infinitive form of "to come". For example, someone giving permission to enter a room might say "pode vim".
Which should I use in conversational Brazilian Portuguese? If I use "vir" does it make me sound overly formal or pedantic?

A:

I have three children and at the time they went to kindergarten/grammar school and had contact with other children, they started saying sentences like "A tia Ester vai vim aqui hoje?". From that moment on, I had to keep correcting them and telling them that the infinitive form is "vir" and not "vim". After a while they were using the infinitive correctly.  
A similar mistake which often requires parental intervention is "pra + personal pronoun + infinitive (e.g."me dá um pedaço pra mim comer?) so common is it among those who had no other choice than a flawed educational system.
Unfortunately, you will often hear "vai vim" or "ela disse que ia vim", etc, in spoken pt-BR. More often so among uneducated Brazilians though I've also heard college graduates say it. 
If you know the right form is "pode vir", there is no reason why you should use a wrong form lest you should sound pedantic. More often than not the person who uses "vim" instead of "vir" won't even notice you're using "vir". And, unlike shouting out "peguem-no, peguem-no" instead of the usual "pega ele, pega ele" for a bag-snatcher, you won't sound pedantic with "pode vir".

A:

I have a feeling this happens because in Brazil the final r is often not pronounced in the infinitive forms of the verbs. See, none of the infinitive forms of the verbs are pronounced as they are written.  Fazer becomes fazê, amar becomes amá, and so on. Even monosyllabic verbs like ser becomes sê and ir can be said as í. The verb vir just followed a different path and had the r replaced by an m.
I don't know why, but it would sound really weird to pronounce it as vi. (I can't figure if there's an actual reason for that or if I'm just not used to it.)
So speakers tend to add this final m, or rather change the i into a im, since im is considered a single phoneme in Portuguese (the m just makes the syllable nasal). For some reason, they prefer this to pronouncing the r. I think pronouncing the final r of infinitive verbs is perceived as unnatural. So it becomes vim, exactly like its first-person preterite form. Vim sounds smoother than vir but not as weak as vi. But notice: it also sounds wrong to some people. 
Personally, I prefer to pronounce the r in vir, and that's the only verb that I always pronounce the final r. Answering your question, I don't think it sounds formal or pedantic, even to those who prefer to pronounce it the other way.

