Q:

How would "powered by" be translated?

It's very usual to find this in websites or softwares, like for example, when a website uses a software or functionality from another company as part of its functionality, somewhere in the website there's a "powered by <.company or software name>".
What would be the equivalent in Portuguese?

A:

I believe that it is common to some companies to use the term:

Fornecido por

Joomla uses this translation for their templates:

Live example (see the footnote)
And a discussion in their forum

Wordpress seems to have agreed with this term as well:

Source

When trying to translate the "powered by" alone you usually get some weird suggestions, but when translating the term within a context some online translators brings lots of examples using the same term. Example:

Linguee - Translation for "Powered by Google"

A:

Even though fornecido por has been used in place of powered by already I’d like to present some alternatives for you consideration. Namely:

Assistido por
Habilitado por
Suportado por
Ajudado por

Here are my reasons. Suppose you have webpage X which uses some functionality Z supplied by firm Z, but functionality Z does not do all the work, it only helps webpage X to work seamlessly; or we might say functionality Z enables webpage X. So any of the alternatives above sort of conveys that idea, and has a more upbeat feel to it than fornecido por. Habilitar, tornar hábil ou apto a, prover (outrem) do preciso (para um fim) corresponds more closely to enable. It might take some getting used to, because it also has a legal meaning which is not relevant here. Otherwise it’s probably my favourite, followed by assistido por.
The literal translation of powered by is of course movido por, motorizado por. As used in the present context I suppose all powered by means is precisely enabled by, made to work by. which is not far from the phrases I suggested.

A:

In the following phrases, "powered" is used with a noun to inform what kind of energy provides power to a certain equipment or machinery.

nuclear-powered
solar-powered
battery-powered

With the advent of the computer, it began to be used to refer to a firm or corporation that provides the hardware (hard-disk, processor, motherboard).
In such cases, "powered by XXX" could be translated as "energizado por" or, simply, "funciona com hardware da..."
In ptBR "hardware" is a loan-word and is described in most dictionaries as "conjunto de unidades físicas que compõem um computador ou seus periféricos."

