Q:

Start or stop the ROS node in another node

I want to start or stop some ros nodes remotely. As I want to control a robot by my Android mobile phone through WIFI, and the robot maybe has no keyboard or displayer, so I cannot start the ros node by input "rosrun" or "roslaunch" in the terminal, and I want to use the smart phone to control some ros nodes, like start or stop them. For example, I want to let the robot to draw a map by GMapping node, so I press a button on my smart phone, and the Gmapping node run, then I press another button on my smart phone, the Gmapping node stops. And I have writed a node that could communicate with the smart phone.
I have been looking for the methods for a long time, and I cannot find a perfect method. I find this method link text that proposed by DimitriProsser is really good, however he only tell us the way to start.
So I want to know, are there other methods to achieve my goal? Thank you a lot!

Originally posted by tanghz on ROS Answers with karma: 130 on 2015-12-25
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by AutoCar on 2019-01-22:
How do you connect your smart phone to the robot?
Comment by billy on 2019-01-22:
I've done it using rosbridge and a webbrowser. I'm sure there are several ways.
But the mods are going to give you a hard time for asking a question using an answer on an unrelated topic. : (
Comment by jayess on 2019-01-23:
@AutoCar please don't use an answer to ask a question. This isn't a forum. You can ask a new question and reference this question instead.

A:

I think you can do it using launch files, I never used it in the end, but it works for starting and stopping nodes programmatically (as long as it is one you previously launched programmatically)
http://answers.ros.org/question/203154/is-it-possible-to-run-and-quit-launch-files-from-code-inside-a-node/

Originally posted by nickw with karma: 1504 on 2015-12-25
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by tanghz on 2015-12-25:
Thank you very much, I will try it. It would be better if there's a C++ tutorial. I think maybe I have to learn the Python programming language.
Comment by tanghz on 2015-12-27:
Thank you very much, now I solved it, I have answered my own question. Thank you very much.

