Q:

How am I supposed to make a LifecycleNode in rclcpp?

The implementation of my next node fits well with the LifecycleNode pattern, so I thought I would implement one using it. I go to the rclcpp GitHub page and ask myself, what do I need to inherit from the LifecycleNode and perform all transitions properly? The GitHub page refers me to the API page (https://docs.ros2.org/latest/api/rclcpp_lifecycle/). It looks a lot like an API page, not a tutorial page. Maybe I am not good enough at reading API's, but I sure could not figure out how to make a LifecycleNode based on looking around the API.
I am also referred to the design documents, which do give an idea of what the rclcpp implementation needs, but not necessarily what I as a user need.
I am also referred to the quality declaration, where rclcpp_lifecycle intends to be a Quality Level 1 category, which includes all kinds of documentation.
Is there a decent guide or example available that I just missed?

Originally posted by Per Edwardsson on ROS Answers with karma: 501 on 2022-12-12
Post score: 0

A:

Searching for lifecycle on docs.ros.org leads to Managing nodes with managed lifecycles, which points to ros2/demos/humble/lifecycle.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2022-12-12
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Per Edwardsson on 2022-12-12:
That's a good place to end, thanks for providing the link. For the record, when I searched for lifecycle on docs.ros.org I mainly got links to change logs and release posts. It's there, but I hope you agree that this is not particularly ergonomic. A link from the GitHub readme would not be too much, I think.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2022-12-12:
Sure.
I would suggest you post this as an issue on the rclcpp repository's tracker.
It's not going to have good visibility as a comment / question on ROS Answers.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2022-12-13:
Looks like you did that: ros2/rclcpp#2064.
Comment by Per Edwardsson on 2022-12-13:
Yep! Thanks for guidance. 

