Q:

Suggestions to read Keyboard inputs and publish to a topic. (For ex: publish 'w' when the key 'w' is pressed and so on)

Hi, I'm working on a project where I need to send certain data to a programmed embedded system connected through rosserial, which will accordingly execute a function. So, I need to read and publish the keyboard inputs, which will then be subscribed by the embedded system. Please suggest me a solution.
Thank you in advance.

Originally posted by Jayadev on ROS Answers with karma: 26 on 2019-05-24
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-05-24:
Can you tell us what you've found yourself? We're all here to help, but to avoid suggesting things you've already tried, it would be good to know what didn't work for you.
Comment by Jayadev on 2019-05-25:
I've tried certain packages like ros-keyboard (https://github.com/lrse/ros-keyboard), keyboard_reader (https://github.com/UTNuclearRoboticsPublic/keyboard_reader) from Github. ros-keyboard requires you to keep the popped up window highlighted for it to work, which is not ideal for my case and the keyboard_reader said it couldn't grab my keyboard. I have also tried working with the ROS's own teleop_twist to make it fit my requirement but it seemed to not work as it required a very deep knowledge of the python functions to read inputs (like getch(), msvcrt(), sys(), etc). Finally, I tried a funtion called getchar() to fail and come here for suggestions.
Comment by ChuiV on 2019-06-10:
Does it have to be a keyboard? If you have an xbox controller or other joystick or gamepad, the ros-joy packages have worked great for me.
Comment by Jayadev on 2019-06-22:
Yes. It had to be the keyboard to give the inputs. I have it linked in the answer.

A:

I dug and found some repositories to work on. And here is the keyboard publisher that publishes the ASCII values of the keyboard events.
Repository: https://github.com/Jayadev22/ubiquitousROS.git

Originally posted by Jayadev with karma: 26 on 2019-06-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

