Q:

Has anyone used a 'Dr Robot' platform with ROS?

I'm investigating indoor/outdoor capable platforms and stumbled upon a Canadian robotics manufacturer that has some seemingly "rugged" platforms that output a "communication raw protocol" for talking to linux PC payloads (like an ubuntu ROS machine)
Has anyone used one of these? Are there existing ROS bindings?
They list first class support for a number of software development SDKs, so creating some bindings shouldn't be too hard--I just don't want to reinvent the wheel if someone has already gone through the trouble.

Originally posted by JeffRousseau on ROS Answers with karma: 1607 on 2012-03-15
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by bit-pirate on 2012-11-08:
Did you notice that they claim to support ROS? (e.g. http://jaguar.drrobot.com/specification_V4.asp). Maybe they have developed some code as well.
Comment by MartinW on 2013-03-25:
Hey Jeff, I am currently using a Dr Robot platform with my research. I'm using the H20 model with ROS and I've augmented their jaguar4x4 ROS code to work with the robot. If you have any questions, I'll try to help as best I can. Otherwise the manufacturers are quite helpful too!
Comment by Mughal_786 on 2015-05-12:
@MartinW. I wanted to ask. whether do you have a repo regarding H20 platform on github?
Would be great help to me.

A:

I have not personally used any Dr.Robots platforms.
However, I remember answering a question here related to a DrRobot H20 platform.  So you may try contacting @MartinW if you have questions.
A quick google search also turned up this repository of example ROS interface code.  It looks like this code may even be a "semi-official" example (uploaded by a drrobots.com user-email).  Note: the latest repository version is missing all the files.  Use the r4 release to see the latest versions.

Originally posted by Jeremy Zoss with karma: 4976 on 2013-03-25
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Stefan Kohlbrecher on 2013-03-25:
Damn, looks like I accidentally downvoted your answer yesterday, can't revert that back as it's a "older vote".

