Q:

Lidar cluster and classifier not output as expectation

After run lidar cluster and classifier module(Single lidar) of autoware.auto, I found that the object output is not my expectation.
I expect the lidar algo can output object only for interest ones: car/truck/bus/bicycle/person etc.
But in fact it will output all the cluster points, the points from kerb/bushes/wall will also generate some dummy object. Of course, these objects is not what I need.
So I want to know whether autoware algo can output only interest object, if it is, what shall I do?
Below is the gif for reference.

Originally posted by daniel.tian on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2021-09-22
Post score: 0

A:

Hi @daniel.tian
You need to process the point cloud produced by the lidar with a separate algorithm, as per documentation VoxelNet and LMNet are compatible:
"lidar_detector reads point cloud data from 3D laser scanners, and provides LiDAR-based object detection capabilities. The basic performance comes from the Euclidean Clustering algorithm, which finds clusters of the LiDAR scan (point cloud) above the ground. To classify the clusters, DNN-based algorithms are also supported, such as VoxelNet and LMNet."
https://gitlab.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.ai/autoware/-/wikis/Overview

Originally posted by osilva with karma: 1650 on 2021-09-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by daniel.tian on 2021-09-22:
Thanks for your reply Omar.
My project is based on autoware.auto framework, and searched in my project, it seems that there is no VoxelNet and LMNet in official autoware.auto project. I guess it is located in autoware.ai. If so, after copy from autoware.ai, can I build it and launch in autoware.auto directly? I am new to autoware, and not know the work load.
Many thanks.
Comment by osilva on 2021-09-23:
You will have to process the point cloud on a separate node. Here is an example using ROS https://github.com/AbangLZU/VoxelNetRos
Glad it helped. Pls remember to vote and if you have more questions start a new one. Good luck

