Q:

Ros hydro for ubuntu ARM and turtlebot

Hi all
I am installing the ros turltebot. I see in this website http://namniart.com/repos/status/hydro.html of libraries for ubuntu arm, it has ros-hydro-turtlebot-bringup or the other packages of turtlebot but when I typed command
sudo apt-get install ros-hydro-turtlebot-bringup

I had the notice
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-hydro-turtlebot-bringup : Depends: ros-hydro-kobuki-bumper2pc but it is not installable
                               Depends: ros-hydro-kobuki-description but it is not installable
                               Depends: ros-hydro-kobuki-node but it is not installable
                               Depends: ros-hydro-kobuki-safety-controller but it is not installable
                               Depends: ros-hydro-openni-camera but it is not installable
                               Depends: ros-hydro-rocon-app-manager but it is not installable
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

It means I have to install the below packages, but they are not supported in ros hydro for arm.
So what problem in here?

Originally posted by domikilo on ROS Answers with karma: 89 on 2014-01-02
Post score: 0

A:

This is a known problem related to missing the Lisp interpreter on ARM.
I'm actively working on updated builds to fix this, but it requires patching the core ROS libraries and doing custom releases, so it's proceeding slowly. Hopefully I'll have something out by the end of the month.
In the meantime, you may be able to get around this by faking an installation of the sbcl package. It will be some work, but this looks like a good place to start; http://askubuntu.com/questions/18192/how-to-fake-a-package-version-installed

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2014-01-02
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by domikilo on 2014-01-04:
So in the future, ros hydro will suport enough features for turtlebot, such as cmd_vel_mux, kobuki_fdti... ?I think cmd_vel_mux is very important, if there is not this library, every one just work with turlesim, not real robot
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-01-20:
At this point, I've resolved the lisp dependency and most of the base turtlebot and kobuki packages are building for ARM. The only thing that's still blocking installation of the turtlebot_bringup package is that kobuki_node depends on rviz, and rviz most definitely does not build on ARM.
Comment by domikilo on 2014-01-21:
That sounds good, thank you a lot.
Comment by nickw on 2014-01-26:
looks like this should be resolved by igloo
https://github.com/yujinrobot/kobuki/issues/315
.

