Q:

rviz doesn't start when run remotely, throws GLXUnsupportedPrivateRequest error

This is similar to this question, in that when I run rviz, I get the following error:

Xlib:  extension "NV-GLX" missing on
display "localhost:10.0". The program
'rviz' received an X Window System
error. This probably reflects a bug in
the program. The error was
'GLXUnsupportedPrivateRequest'.
(Details: serial 20 error_code 176
request_code 154 minor_code 16)

In my case, this happens only when I'm running rviz on my desktop while connected to it remotely, with X forwarding, using ssh -Y. When I'm at the desktop in person, rviz works just fine.
A bit more info:
I'm actually connecting to my desktop from an Ubuntu virtual machine running on a Windows laptop (I know, it's horribly baroque, but it's the only way I could get linux running on my company laptop).
This virtual machine doesn't have access to the laptop's graphics card, so it can't run rviz locally. However, I thought that it would still be able to run rviz on a remote machine, since the remote machine would do the rendering, and the laptop would just display the rendered screen images that it receives over X. Was I wrong?

Originally posted by SuperElectric on ROS Answers with karma: 23 on 2012-12-20
Post score: 0

A:

The X protocol is based on remote procedure calls to the X server. X forwarding basically just means that instead of sending these commands to a local X server they are piped through a TCP socket and then processed by a local X server to display program windows. Unfortunately, this doesn't really work for OpenGL calls so you cannot run programs that require 3D acceleration using X forwarding. Have a look at VLC and VirtualGL as alternatives.

Originally posted by Lorenz with karma: 22731 on 2012-12-21
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by ipso on 2012-12-25:
Yup, this is the cause of the problem described by OP. I've had some luck with VirtualGL and TigerVNC in the past, but it was far from easy to set up.

