Q:

installing ros package without apt-get update?

I want to install only a single package from ROS onto my Ubuntu 16.04 ARM. However, I don't want to update the list of packages from any repository. So when I skip the apt-get update step and directly jump to apt install package, I am unable to install the package ( Error: unable to locate ros-kinetic- ). Is there a workaround for this where I can skip updating the package list but only install the ros packages?

Originally posted by sam26 on ROS Answers with karma: 231 on 2017-02-23
Post score: 0

A:

Is there a workaround for this where I can skip updating the package list but only install the ros packages?

If you want to use a package manager: no. The package manager needs to know which packages exist, and for that it needs to load something called an index file. And those files are exactly what gets downloaded when you run apt-get update.
Furthermore:

I want to install only a single package from ROS onto my Ubuntu 16.04 ARM.

While this may seem like a simple thing, consider the fact that all ROS packages (and in fact: all software ever created) have runtime dependencies. Even if you say: "but I don't link to any libraries!", you'd still be using the C++ standard runtime library. For ROS nodes specifically, they'll always at least depend on a client library like roscpp or perhaps the Python libraries, but typically they'll depend on many more libraries (OpenCV, PCL, TF, msg packages, actionlib, etc, etc).
So even though you could relatively easily download a single .deb, extract it and then access the one binary that you're interested in, chances are that it'll be impossible to run it, as none of its dependencies are present on your "Ubuntu 16.04 ARM".

So is this completely impossible: no. If you're willing to build from sources and to figure out the exact dependencies of a particular package/node it can be done. It'll just be more work than "install only a single package" using the package manager. Perhaps you can check the bmwcarit/meta-ros project (which actually builds everything from sources for embedded platforms) and see whether they have something that can do what you want.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2017-02-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by sam26 on 2017-02-23:
Thank you for the response ! The purpose of installing a single package was to just check if the Ubuntu I'm working on runs pre-built binaries of ROS properly without actually installing the entire ROS.
Comment by msadowski on 2017-02-23:
You are right with building from source. If I had similar problem to OP I would definitely consider this solution.
Comment by sam26 on 2017-02-23:
And initially, I thought I would check with turtlesim alone, since it has got a simple implementation,but then I realized that it first needs roscore to run which is in roslaunch package.So, I just installed roslaunch & ran roscore & rosgraph and they seem to be running pretty fine without any error
Comment by sam26 on 2017-02-23:
and coming to the apt-get update, I manually added the content of ros-latest.list to softwares and updates and it prompted a reload and doing so seems to have updated the cache with the list of ROS packages. Is this same as doing apt-get update?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-23:
apt-get update is indeed the same as what a "reload" does in the software applet.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-23:
re: minimal ROS installation: apart from selecting single packages, the ros-$distro-ros-core metapackage results in the smallest 'complete' ROS installation.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-23:
Finally: @sam26: this seems like a text-book example of an xy problem. You ask: how do I install a single pkg / avoid apt-get update. You really want to know:

check if the Ubuntu [..] runs pre-built binaries of ROS properly

It would be good to avoid this in the future.
Comment by sam26 on 2017-02-23:
right!! Thank you for that clarification.

