Q:

Is it possible to merge multiple Kinect streams using vision_opencv?

Recently it came to my attention that in the later ROS versions much of the complex image processing/handling has been offloaded to other sources such as OpenCV.  The camera_pose_calibration package is hopelessly broken for later distros. I've recently stumbled on vision_opencv so I'm asking if anyone here has used OpenCV tos olve this problem.
I've got three Kinects which I've been using through ROS. I have the ability to access each of their depth/RGB streams through the usual code from the tutorial. However, I want to use RViz or something similar and merge the live streams into one 3D stream using a universal coordinate frame. I've read about using checkerboards and have done intrinsic calibrations with them. Conceptually, I know what to do but as far as coding, most of the repos I find are from 2011 and either deprecated or severely bugged.
Can anyone point me to tutorials or packages in which might help? I'm using two model 1473's and a 1414, so I'm not sure if I can get the 1473's to play nice but I should at least be able to get one 1473 and the 1414 to work.  I'm in a time crunch, and I need to be able to get these streams in RViz simultaneously.  The last few months I've hit a brick wall, so any knowledge would help.

Originally posted by Athoesen on ROS Answers with karma: 429 on 2014-02-11
Post score: 0

A:

camera_pose_calibration should do what you want. It isn't currently working in hydro though (not sure about groovy).

Originally posted by Dan Lazewatsky with karma: 9115 on 2014-02-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Athoesen on 2014-02-12:
See the part where I said "The camera_pose_calibration package is hopelessly broken for later distros."  I'm trying to find an alternate since using that package is a nightmare.  And I'm not interested in using Fuerte.
Comment by Dan Lazewatsky on 2014-02-12:
I don't think writing this from scratch will be any easier than bringing camera_pose_calibration up to date.

