Q:

Ubuntu arm precise and hydro?

The wiki page
http://wiki.ros.org/hydro/Installation/UbuntuARM
says "Due to limited resources, there are only active builds for Raring armhf, since this appear to be the most popular Ubuntu distribution in use on ARM."
What is that claim based on? The groovy page said that it was Precise that was the most popular. And checking for example the Linaro page for gumstix:
http://wiki.gumstix.org/index.php?title=Installing_Linaro_Image
it seems to still be based on Precise.
So is it possible to get a hydro Precise build for armhf also?

Originally posted by TommyP on ROS Answers with karma: 1339 on 2013-09-09
Post score: 3

A:

I do these builds on my personal desktop, and it usually takes about a week to produce a mostly-complete build.
When I wrote the Groovy documentation 6-8 months ago, Precise appeared to be the most popular Ubuntu distribution for ARM boards such as the beaglebone and Pandaboard.
When doing the latest builds for Hydro about a month ago, and taking to people who were looking for more recent builds of ROS, I chose Ubuntu Raring because it has much better support for recent boards such as the BeagleBone Black.
I have no intention of removing the old Groovy builds for Precise. They may not get updated very frequently, but I have no plans to remove them either.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2013-09-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by bit-pirate on 2013-09-11:
Btw, thanks for the effort of setting this ARM build farm up and keeping it running!
Comment by TommyP on 2013-09-11:
Are you cross compiling of what are you using to build the arm packages? Do you have any written instructions about how to set up a build for armhf? If I get some time over I might want to experiment a bit with this...
Comment by ahendrix on 2013-09-12:
I'm running a clone of the main ROS build farm. The setup instructions are loosely documented here: http://wiki.ros.org/buildfarm

