Q:

groovy openni 1.5.4 upgrade error

Hi,
after reading Tullys post on ros-users, I just upgraded to openni 1.5.4 on my Ubuntu 12.10 machine via upgrade manager.
I got the following errors during the upgrade process:
"The upgrade will continue but the 'ps-engine' package may not be in a working state.Please consider submitting a bug report about it.
subprocess installed pre-removal script returned error exit status 127

Could not install 'nite-dev' Please consider submitting a bug report about it.
subprocess installed pre-removal script returned error exit status 127

Could not install the upgrades. The upgrade has aborted. Your system could be in an unusable state. A recovery will run now (dpkg --configure -a)."

So ps-engine is now a broken package, but I think that it is safe to remove it because now it is obsolete/deprecated, right? Besides, I runned openni_launch and image_view and the Kinect seems to be working.
Regarding nite-dev, I don't know if it is necessary but the problem seems that there is no quantal version of the package available.
Cheers,
Oier

Originally posted by Oier on ROS Answers with karma: 145 on 2012-12-27
Post score: 0

A:

Yes it is safe to remove ps-engine.
Sorry I forgot to mention the 3rd package changed package in my email.  The three packages changed are as follows:

openni-dev -> libopenni-dev
ps-engine -> libopenni-sensor-primesense-dev
nite-dev -> libopenni-nite-dev

And there are a few dependencies that should be automatically installed:

libopenni0
libopennni-sensor-primesense0
openni-utils

Originally posted by tfoote with karma: 58457 on 2012-12-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by joq on 2012-12-29:
I tried doing the dist-upgrade. Now apt-get complains of "unmet dependencies". It is unable to remove the old packages or install the new ones. The broken dependencies are: ros-fuerte-openni-{camera,kinect,tracker} and ros-groovy-openni-camera.
Comment by joq on 2012-12-29:
I finally got it unstuck by removing all those dependencies and all their dependencies.

