Q:

How to instruct a robot to cover the whole mapped 2D area?

Hello experts,
I've been searching and trying to figure out how to implement a SLAM based coverage method using ROS on a Turtlebot, that in which the robot builds a map of its workplace and visits every unvisited area of the map (e.g. used floor cleaning applications). You can see what im trying to explain in the following video link:SLAM based cleaning video.
In theory, I know that I have to implement a mapping method (gmapping) to build the map and to Transform robot's Pose to  /map and save them or assign a higher cost to the visited areas on the map.

I don't know how to instruct or set different dynamically changing goals in the path planner node(s) for the robot to go over unvisited areas in order to give me a complete coverage of the mapped area. (as you could see in the video)

Any ideas or pointing me to the correct direction would be highly appreciated. ps: i'm not a pro programmer but i know my way around it.
EDIT1:
I figured out that one good way to achieve this goal is to use Spanning Tree Coverage (STC) Algorithm, for that one need to export FREE map cell coordinates and build the spanning tree that robot has to navigate through to cover the whole (Unoccupied) area. An explorer node can be used initially to build the map of the environment, but next step would be exporting the FREE Cell coordinates and Spanning Tree (or Greedy) algorithm on the cell coords. STC Paper

any help or guidance in those areas are highly appreciated.

Cheers.

Originally posted by sobot on ROS Answers with karma: 116 on 2015-02-26
Post score: 1

A:

You could have a look at the frontier_exploration package.

Originally posted by Martin Günther with karma: 11816 on 2015-03-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gautam2410 on 2015-03-06:
Does the frontier_exploration package provide complete map coverage? I have implemented it and once the region within the set boundaries is explored, the robot stops. Is there any way of using this package to make the robot move to every cell in the set boundary?
Comment by gautam2410 on 2015-03-06:
On the wiki page, I see the sentence "To run an unbounded exploration task, simply leave the boundary blank". I'm not sure how exactly should I do this? The  same question is asked here
Comment by sobot on 2015-03-10:
Thanks Martin, I checked this package. what i'm working on is somewhat different. need to save the visited (x,y), autonomously set next goals which are not among the visited (x,y) list, and an obstacle hugging method to start with. - i'd appreciate it if u have any code snips that may help my cause.
Comment by sobot on 2015-05-11:
hi @Martin Günther i tried frontier_exploration package. in its standard form ofc. to try exploration feature. i ran into some problem with the package. posted a question here which no one replied so far, any ideas? tnx

