Q:

what will be the best sensor suite for an indoor robot?

Dear all ,
I am asking this to get some help from experienced roboticists here. Forgive me if this is not the correct place to ask this question.
We are planning to implement autonomous indoor robot for a large indoor environment for a university project. Is LiDAR  a must for this kind of a robot ? or could we be satisfied with an RGB-D sensor (addition to IMU + odometry)?
Your ideas are really appreciated.
Thanks.

Originally posted by dinesh_sl on ROS Answers with karma: 13 on 2015-06-12
Post score: 0

A:

First you should have a clear definition on your large indoor environment because range sensors like LRF or RGB-D sensor have limitation on distance measurement. For example, Kinect has practical ranging limit around 0.8 – 4 m.
Camera does not have the limitation, but it lacks the absolute info about scale. Also, related tools are less.
LSD-SLAM(Large Scale Direct SLAM) is a good one you might want to take a look. But as far as I know, navigation with monocular is still a problem.
http://vision.in.tum.de/research/lsdslam
Hope this helps.

Originally posted by Po-Jen Lai with karma: 1371 on 2015-06-12
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by dinesh_sl on 2015-06-13:
Thank you very much. Environment will be populated with still objects like in a library. So range problem will not be a much problem. Because of the cost we are planning to use RGB-D sensor information to laser scan because we are given a 2D map of the environment. Is this a suitable method ? thanks
Comment by Po-Jen Lai on 2015-06-14:
Probably works. With pointcloud_to_laserscan (http://wiki.ros.org/pointcloud_to_laserscan), you can use the navigation package to build your exploring robot system. If your task is patrolling, SMACH can provide a smart solution to handle the whole task.
Comment by Humpelstilzchen on 2015-06-22:
Or you avoid the costly pointcloud by using depthimage_to_laserscan
Comment by Po-Jen Lai on 2015-06-22:
Overall, RGB-D sensor is a good idea since you can use the RGB image or you can transform depth to laser according to your scenario. Though the accuracy might not be as good as LIDAR.

