Q:

why does my gazebo saved the world as plain text file?

As the title mention, when I saved my world it only genarates a plain text file instead of .world file.  Though I still can open the world by rosrun gazebo_ros gazebo <world_name>, I got into trouble when trying to launch rviz with gazebo, which all kinds of tutorials required .world file.
edit:
I can change the file to .world file and still launch it using rosrun gazebo_ros gazebo <world_name>, but the code doesn't seem like a .world file format. And I'm kinda confused that many tutorials also mentioned launch file, so am I suppose to make it into a package? I just created the whole world only using gazebo.
The file it generated using file->save world as
gazebo version 11.14.0

A:

If you have specific questions wrt certain tutorials, you should post a link to those tutorials and describe what commands you try and what exact issues you run into.
But apart from that:

Gazebo loads its environment from an SDF file, which is an xml file (i.e. a text file). There are no binary files. It can be called file.sdf or file.world, but the contents is always xml corresponding to the SDF specification.

The SDF specification can be found on sdformat.org.

Gazebo Classic tutorials are here. Gazebo Classic is the 'old Gazebo'. It has version numbers. The most recent version is 11.

Gazebo Sim tutorials are here. Gazebo Sim is the 'new Gazebo'. It has version names, e.g. Fortress, Garden, Harmonic.
Gazebo Sim used to be called 'Ignition Gazebo' until Fortress. From Garden on the name was changed to 'Gazebo Sim' due to trademark issued wrt 'Ignition'.

Gazebo and RViz are not the same. You cannot load an SDF into RViz.

And I'm kinda confused that many tutorials also mentioned launch file, so am I suppose to make it into a package?

A launch file is nothing more than a convenience script to start up your application.
Instead of using a launch script, you can issue each command manually from a terminal (i.e. execute ros2 run <package> <executable> <arguments> for each node, start gazebo, etc.).
I think you should start with:

Gazebo tutorials (i.e. without ROS),
ROS tutorials (i.e. without Gazebo),
Play around with these until you get comfortable,
Learn the basics of launch files,
Then go through the ROS+Gazebo tutorials.

If that does not work, consider enrolling for a course.
There is no shortcut in learning ROS and Gazebo.

