Q:

Why can't i use different ESCs together on a multirotor?

I'm working on a diy quadcopter build from scratch and have bought a 4pack ESC from Castel Creations.While i currently have my quad up and running(sort of), from what i've read on the various sources and forums on the internet, i am not able to/ not recommended to use different ESCs together on the same quad.
As i bought my ESCs together as a 4 pack, and am not able to buy any replacements unless i were to switch out all 4 of them, this has me worried in the eventual case of a spoilt ESC in the future.
From what i can gleam from various posts on the internet, it seems to have something to do with the rate at which ESCs communicate with the flight controller.If so, can i not simply buy a esc programmer and program all of them to communicate at the same rate?
I've asked the dude at my local hobby shop, and he said that i cannot/should not be using different escs from different brands or even the same brand but different models( i.e 35v & 20V ) ESCs together.
I would really appreciate it if someone were to clarify what exactly is the issue with using different ESCs together on the same quadcopter.
P.S If it helps, i'm currently using the APM 2.6 as my flight controller on a WFLY transmitter and a f450 frame.

A:

Ideally, when you raise the collective all the way up, all the ESCs put out their max power and the quadcopter goes straight up.
Different ESCs will end up producing different maximum thrusts; and also will ramp up (and down) differently with sudden changes in control signal.
As you probably already know, if one rotor of a multirotor vehicle has more (or less) thrust than the others, the vehicle will flip over.
The ArduPilotMega (APM) or other electronic stabilization system will try to compensate for differences in thrust to keep it right side up.
The ESCs don't need to be exactly the same.
The more different the ESCs are from each other, the longer it will take to tune the stabilization system.
The more different the ESCs are from each other, the harder the stabilization system has to work in flight to keep the multirotor vehicle right-side up; and the more the vehicle will wobble in flight.

