Q:

Frustrating Errors in Loading Motion Planning Library

I am facing very unusual problems. I have been using ROS-Indigo under Ubuntu 14.04 on my Virtual Machine and ROS-Indgio under Ubuntu 14.04 on my laptop. Surprisingly, I am seeing totally different kinds of errors on all of these machines while I am using the same tutorials.
Coming to the point, I am trying to run PR2 moveit tutorials given here. On my laptop, I am seeing the following error
PluginlibFactory: The plugin for class 'moveit_rviz_plugin/MotionPlanning' failed to load.  Error: According to the loaded plugin descriptions the class moveit_rviz_plugin/MotionPlanning with base class type rviz::Display does not exist.

and the following error
Exception while loading planner 'ompl_interface/OMPLPlanner': According to the loaded plugin descriptions the class ompl_interface/OMPLPlanner with base class type planning_interface::PlannerManager does not exist.

It is really very frustrating. So, I tried to run it on my virtual machine as well. Please help me, how can I handle this. I have been spending a lot of time on it and it is not working.

Originally posted by Abdul Mannan on ROS Answers with karma: 167 on 2016-10-15
Post score: 0

A:

Both of these errors point to missing packages. Do you have the ros-<distro>-moveit-ros-visualization and the ros-<distro>-moveit-planners-ompl packages installed?
Similar Q/A: moveit rviz plugin error.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2016-10-15
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Abdul Mannan on 2016-10-16:
Thank you so gvdhoorn. It is working now. I am so grateful to you for your comment. I spent almost 2 days in figuring out what's the problem and tried to install as many packages to resolve this but I could not. May Mighty Lord accept your good deeds and help you when you need.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2016-10-16:
No problem. But I'm curious how you installed the PR2 pkgs in the first place. They should've resulted in the missing pkgs being installed automatically.
And in general: if something complains about plugins not being found, try to find out which pkg they should come with. Then install that.
Comment by Abdul Mannan on 2016-10-16:
I shall definitely do it and be careful in future. Thank gvdhoorn for your extremely valuable time.

