Q:

gazebo URDF collapsing - need tips for inertia (solved)

Hi, I have a problem with gazebo spawning the links of my URDF model not correctly.
So figured out that it is still a problem with the inertia.
-I tried to fix it but could not make it stable. When adding link by link after the 5th part everything is collapsing.  I removed the big table from the URDF, than there was a change but in the end it still collapses.
-I used the inertia calculated by Mashlab and I tried it with the inertia from SolidWorks, but there was no improvement. Using different masses for the links didnt change anything as well.
Question 1: should I build the complete testbench in solid works and than use the urdf_exporter? By now I build the URDF link by link...
Question 2: If I change the structure of the URDF in Gazebo but leave the old structure in MoveIt, would there be problems with the transformations ?

Question 1: should I build the complete testbench in solid works and
than use the urdf_exporter? By now I
build the URDF link by link...

'-->I didnt go that way but: I reduced fixed Joints to zero (except base_link). Making assemblies in SolidWorks and using the inertia from the urdf_exporter made it nearly stable when spawning. The model is still a little shaky,  I will keep working on that.
ROI3000

Originally posted by ROI on ROS Answers with karma: 36 on 2020-01-17
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-01-20:
If you've solved this, please post the solution as an answer and accept your own answer.

A:

Hi,
so I solved the issue with the collapsing model. It is still a little shaky but I hope that it will improve.
Things I did to solve the Problem:

Question 1: should I build the complete testbench in solid works and than use the urdf_exporter? By now I build the URDF link by link...

I had the wrong world origin for the test bench. so I had to move up in z
And I reduced fixed joints in the URDF: connecting Links in SolidWorks (SW) and than exported them as one single part. And I used the inertial, which were calculated by the urdf_exporter.

By now I only have issues with the controller to use moveit and gazebo!

Originally posted by ROI with karma: 36 on 2020-01-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

