Q:

How can I move/zoom the camera in RVIZ?

Hi,
I'm using Ubuntu 16.04 and ROS Kinetic.
I'm trying to make an AR-Application. For that Issue I want to get a picture stream out of RVIZ.
I tried the camera-Display from RVIZ. to get an Image from an UR10-Robot, which I could modify. I only get an very small image of the scene.
How can I move and zoom the camera picture?
Greetings

Originally posted by Lennart on ROS Answers with karma: 40 on 2020-04-01
Post score: 0

A:

If you really want to use RViz plugins for this (as I'm not entirely sure it's supposed to be used like this), I'd recommend:

to render arbitrary points of view: use lucasw/rviz_camera_stream: it's an RViz plugin, so you can just add it to your RViz configuration
to control the camera (focus, zoom level, fov): look at AIS-Bonn/rviz_cinematographer. From the documentation: An rqt plugin to create and edit trajectories for the rviz camera and record its views in a video.

And a comment:

I'm trying to make an AR-Application.

I'd take a look at how previous implementations, such as ros-visualization/oculus_rviz_plugins (forks are more up-to-date), AndreGilerson/rviz_vive, ROSIN FTP: rvis2ar, IntelligentRoboticsLabs/ARViz and others have approached this.
Or perhaps even reuse some of them.
For an AR application it may be more efficient to directly alter the way RViz renders the scene.
It's based on OGRE, so anything is possible.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-04-02
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Lennart on 2020-04-03:
I allready found rviz_camera_stream and I thinks it's good.
I will look at your other suggestions. I hope they will be helpful.
Comment by Lennart on 2020-04-17:
I'm using rviz_camera_stream now. I can move and zoom when I move the tf-frame of the camera. And After I started the demo-file I can start the camera in other rviz-windows als well. Thanks for the answer.
P.S. It's important for me to get quick a solution, so OGRE would have been to much work.

