Q:

Is it possible to solely use a P-controller for velocity control?

Let's say I want a robot to run at a certain speed. I have one motor attached to each robot rear wheel. The feedback value to the controller comes from an encoder, which outputs pulses per time unit, i.e. the measured variable is speed of the robot.
Something has been bugging me, so please correct me if I am wrong: I don't think it is possible to solely use a P-controller for velocity control. I seems to me that it is impossible to reach the desired target speed if your output signal from the controller (i.e. a velocity value) is proportional to the error value. Then when the error goes towards zero (which is what the P-controller strives for) the output signal (velocity) would go towards zero. But then how can you maintain a non-zero speed? Instead you will probably reach an equilibrium point were the robot velocity control is in a steady-state error. Is this reasoning correct or wrong?

A:

output signal from the controller (i.e. a velocity value) is proportional to the error value

I think there is some confusion here.
In a standard velocity control loop, the controller output cannot be the velocity itself, by definition. Instead, the velocity is the feedback, whereas the controller output is most likely the voltage applied to the electrical motor.
That said, your intuition is correct, a simple P controller is not sufficient for achieving the target velocity.
It is easy to verify that, as result of a zero error, the voltage command will be zero, hence the motor won't spin any longer. Thus, a generic target speed different from zero is not attainable.
More rigorously, if we consider that the transfer function voltage-speed can be well approximated with a first-order response, we end up with no integral in the loop if we close it with a simple P controller. In turn, no integral entails a non-null steady-state error. To compensate for that, one must purposely introduce the I term as it is well known.

