Q:

ROS Package For IMU Positional Movement?

Is there a ROS package that uses IMU data to determine positional movement (for example, relative to the start location), based on the existing IMU data like acceleration?

Originally posted by bzhan on ROS Answers with karma: 21 on 2016-04-22
Post score: 0

A:

You likely can setup a few state estimation packages out there for purely integrating IMU data. robot_localization has the most complete documentation on how to perform a corresponding setup I believe.
Note that unless you have a really expensive IMU (let's say upwards of 10000 US$), this kind purely IMU-based approach will quickly diverge from the true pose of the sensor and will be of limited usefulness.

Originally posted by Stefan Kohlbrecher with karma: 24361 on 2016-04-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by bzhan on 2016-04-22:
I thought that robot_localization would have this implemented as well, but I didn't find anything that gives you the positional movement data from that package--not sure if there is something I missed?
I am working in planar space and fusing with wheel odometer, so hoping it will be more feasible
Comment by Stefan Kohlbrecher on 2016-04-22:
If you configure things according to http://wiki.ros.org/robot_localization/Tutorials/Sensor%20Configuration the odom message robot_localization puts out should contain pose and velocity information computed from the specified inputs.
Comment by bzhan on 2016-04-22:
I get no output when I run rostopic echo /odometry/filtered (after launching the package with all possible launch files). I started my IMU with rosrun, and the /imu messages are printing out fine. I am wondering if I did something wrong?
Comment by Stefan Kohlbrecher on 2016-04-24:
Laucnhing all possible launch files is not necessarily the best approach. You should make sure you have one correct launch file and work on getting that :) Have you verified robot_localization actually subscribed to your IMU data?

