Q:

IMU data to be used with robot_localization

I am using the package robot_localization with an IMU. In the docs, the Preparing Your Data for Use with robot_localization, it says

Adherence to specifications: As with odometry, be sure your data adheres to REP-103 and the sensor_msgs/Imu specification. Double-check the signs of your data, and make sure the frame_id values are correct.

REP-103 says the axes should be oriented in the following fashion:

x forward
y left
z up

Which means when an IMU is placed in its neutral position (flat on the surface), the axes should look like this:

So for acceleration due to gravity, it should measure - (minus) 9.8 meters per second squared for the Z axis. However the docs say:

Acceleration: Be careful with acceleration data. The state estimation nodes in robot_localization assume that an IMU that is placed in its neutral right-side-up position on a flat surface will:

Measure +9.81 meters per second squared for the Z axis.
If the sensor is rolled +90 degrees (left side up), the acceleration should be +9.81 meters per second squared for the Y axis.
If the sensor is pitched +90 degrees (front side down), it should read -9.81 meters per second squared for the X axis.

This would mean the axes are oriented in the following manner, implying left handed coordinate system:

I am definitely missing something here. Can anyone help?

Originally posted by Subodh Malgonde on ROS Answers with karma: 512 on 2018-07-24
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Subodh Malgonde on 2018-07-24:
@Tom Moore I avoided posting an issue in the robot_localization repository since most recent issues have been directed towards answers.ros.org. Please help.

A:

I found the answer to my question. See these 2 posts:

IMU convention for robot_localization
Why do 3-axis accelerometers seemingly have a left-handed coordinate system?

To summarize, in static condition the IMU measures the opposite of gravity acceleration.

Originally posted by Subodh Malgonde with karma: 512 on 2018-07-24
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by Martin Günther on 2018-07-24:
That's the perfect answer to the question. Thanks for taking the time to answer your own question and helping others! :)
Comment by Tom Moore on 2018-07-30:
Apologies for not responding in a timely fashion, but I'm glad you were able to track down the correct answer!

