Q:

How to stabilize a quadcopter

Today was my quadcopter's first "flight". I'm running megapirate on a Crius AIOP v2 with a Turnigy Talon v2 frame.
I only touched the throttle stick on my remote, nothing else. When I felt the quadcopter was about to take off, I pushed the throttle just a little bit more, and the quadcopter oscillated 2 or 3 times and the just flipped over, landing on the propellers.
So, I broke 2 props, my frame feels a bit loose, I'll probably have to tighten the screws (I hope...). How can I tune the software so it will stabilize nicely after take off?
Edit :
I don't know if it was true oscillation or just random air flows making it unstable. I made some more tests yesterday and it was quite OK (even if I crashed a few times). This time, it was really oscillating but it was quite windy outside and the quadcopter managed to stabilize after all. So i'll probably have to tune my PIDs and find a way to do it without crashing.
Edit 2 : After some PID tuning, I managed to stabilize my quadcopter pretty well but it's still oscillating just a little bit. I guess I'll have to slightly change the values to get a perfect stabilization.

A:

The answer to the larger question here is that when running the initial test of any vehicle that has the capability to harm itself, it should be sufficiently restrained until you are satisfied that it can be kept under control.
In the case of a quadcopter, this would involve tying a bit of string to the corners, leaving enough slack so that it can rise 6-12 inches, but not enough slack for it to flip over.

Once you do that, you'll be able to test and troubleshoot with impunity.  Being scared to run a test is the fastest way to run no tests and get nothing done.
If you're suspicious of random air flows being to blame, you can try taking off from a wire mesh instead of a solid surface.  Try swapping the motor polarity on purpose, just to see how that affects the behavior.  Every experiment you can run in the controlled environment to understand the parameters of the system will help you troubleshoot more complicated control problems that arise later.

A:

Something you can do WRONG to very easily unstabilize a quadcopter is to put the wrong propeller on the wrong motor. There are both pushers and pullers, and depending on the configuration you choose, you need the right type. Its possible you had two of them swapped. When they broke, you got the new ones on properly.
This page really helped me. This one has some good info too.

