Q:

Unable to install catkin, Ubuntu 22.04

I tried to follow the installation guide to make a catkin ws but then it said i needed to install it first.
Then i tried to install it but i got this error. https://imgur.com/a/M7GkE2T

Originally posted by swqtt on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2022-09-29
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by tfoote on 2022-09-29:
Please don't use screenshots, copy the raw text so it's searchable and highlightable.
ALso please provide more context as to how your system is setup and what you've done before getting to the current command. As it stands there's a lot of guesses that can be made and you are likely mixing Upstream Packages

A:

ROS1 uses catkin, not ROS2 - which tutorial are you trying to follow?
In Ubuntu 22.04 you have to use upstream packages to have ROS1 Noetic installed:

https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/How-To-Guides/Using-ros1_bridge-Jammy-upstream.html

For ROS2 Humble you should use colcon to build packages in your ros2_ws/dev_ws/...

Official colcon workspace tutorial

Originally posted by ljaniec with karma: 3064 on 2022-09-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2022-09-30:
@ljaniec: could we please always make it very clear the upstream packages you refer to are not the same packages hosted by packages.ros.org, but packages maintained, built and distributed by a 3rd party?
I notice people starting to "recommend" using those when users ask "how to install Noetic on Jammy?". In a way, that's ok, but there are subtle differences between those packages and the official Noetic binary packages which could lead to them running into "strange things" later (the upstream packages wiki page has a few good examples).
Using those packages is ok if you have a bit of experience, but for newcomers, which the OP appears to be, I'm not sure recommending their use is a good idea -- at least not without a warning.
Comment by ljaniec on 2022-09-30:
@gvdhoorn Thank you for your comment, you are right. This will be a potential source of errors in the future. I will always add this information and perhaps recommend other approaches that would be more suitable for OP needs.

