Q:

motion planning with kinect

Hello, I would like to generate plans for my robot with rviz using the kinect for environment representation. Can somebody mention the necessary steps in order to do that? Up to now I have set up my urdf with the kinect in it, I visualize pointclouds in rviz but when I ask for a plan, the robot joints move through the pointcloud image. I have created the config files according to tutorials, any ideas and suggestions are welcome, thank you in advance for your time.

Originally posted by bridos on ROS Answers with karma: 26 on 2014-12-12
Post score: 0

A:

I guess you are using MoveIt (Not because I'm good at guessing, but because that's the only one I know the answer for)
In case you are using MoveIt, you need to set up the Kinect the way described in this tutorial. This will generate an octomap, representing your obstacles.
In case you are using another framework for motion planning, you should say which one, since the answer depends on that fact

Originally posted by Rabe with karma: 683 on 2014-12-12
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by William on 2014-12-15:
@bridos said: Hello, thank you for your reply. Yes I am using Moveit. I have set up the files according to the tutorial. Is there anything else that needs to be done? Like remapping incoming clouds from one topic to another (as I have seen in other tutorials) or should rviz be good to go?
Comment by William on 2014-12-15:
@bridos, please use comments, not answers, to iterate with other people.
Comment by Rabe on 2014-12-16:
Depends on your setup. You can tell MoveIt the topic of your PointCloud in the sensors_rgbd.yaml file under point_cloud_topic: [your_point_cloud_topic]. It's important that you have transformations available to your camera lens, otherwise nothing will show up.
Comment by bridos on 2015-03-03:
Hello again, I have things showing up on RVIZ from the camera, but the robot ignores them and moves right through them, it doesn't recognise that as a collision environment

