Q:

Has anyone been able to create working vector maps/lanelet2 maps for Autoware.ai

I have been trying for months to find software that can create acceptable road definition maps for Autoware. The Autoware vector map creator seems to be localized for Japan. I don't know if it properly configures them for use anywhere else. I have also used Autoware's lanelet2 map creator with some success but I am unable to find a working planner that uses Lanelet2 maps and not vector maps.
Has anyone been successful creating their owns maps and running an Autoware planner outside of Japan? Does anyone know of any open source software or paid services that provide such maps in Florida?
Thanks

Originally posted by Patrick N. on ROS Answers with karma: 65 on 2020-05-10
Post score: 0

A:

Try ASSURE Mapping tool.
You can enter GPS origin and it will save lanelet2 correctly. beside other cool features.
But currently Autoware's lanelet2 loader only uses MGRS, which has a fixed GPS origin.
I have developed a workaround in my fork from version 1.13, which you can use UTM projection. and OpenPlanner can use it too. branch "openplanner.1.13"

Originally posted by Hatem with karma: 443 on 2020-05-18
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Josh Whitley on 2020-05-18:
@Hatem Very nice! Would you consider creating a merge request to the upstream fork to add this feature?
Comment by Patrick N. on 2020-05-19:
I have used the assure mapping tool, but I am a bit confused on the coordinates required. Should the loaded point cloud be expressed in MGRS coordinates(or a local UTM with the workaround) to match the lanelet2 map?
Comment by Hatem on 2020-05-19:
@Josh Whitley I will tested with 1.14 , then send a MR.
Comment by Hatem on 2020-05-19:
@Patrick N. If you have the origin of the point cloud as GPS coordinate, you don't need to worry.
I guess this is one of the mapping output.
it doesn't matter MGRS or UTM. the most important thing is to use the same coordinate projector  for both saving the lanelet2 and loading the lanelet2.
but the MGRS implementation inside Autoware doesn't accept origin. so it only convert with the internal fixed origin.
That is why I added the UTM option, (I didn't want to change the original implementation so I don't confuse if someone is actually using it)
if you have a map I can help you convert it and load it using Autoware. I guess that will make everything clear.

