Q:

3D path planning in an underwater environment with obstacles

Hello,
I was hoping to ask for some guidance from the ROS community on my current project. I am tasked with creating a controller capable of navigating AUVs (autonomous underwater vehicles) and submarines through a simulated underwater environment. The idea would be for the controller to be able to guide these vehicles through a set of 3D waypoints. The environment will contain obstacles like the ocean floor and ice flows that must be avoided. I will likely use UUV simulator, which is built on ROS and Gazebo, to visualize and simulate the environment.
The simulator has simple built in controllers that should be able to implement any feasible path generated for a specific vehicle. However, I cannot find anything capable of generating three-dimensional paths while avoiding obstacles and (preferably) adhering to the kinematic constraints of the vehicle.
The navigation package is only applicable to 2D problems and the consensus for applying MoveIt to path planning for a base instead of joints seems to be that it cannot not be done for non-holonomic vehicles. I understand that OMPL, the motion planning library that MoveIt uses, has path planners capable of 3D path planning subject to constraints, but as it does not have consideration of obstacles integrated like MoveIt does (among other things I would have to implement), it seems I would be reinventing the wheel to accomplish what is supposed to be a small part of a simulator. That being the case, I would love to hear if anyone has any advice on how best to accomplish my task, whether through pointing me towards resources or suggesting alternatives. Thank you!
One note that may be important is that the vehicle does not have to sense the obstacles through simulated sensors for my application. I can provide data about the obstacles in whatever way works. I just need the vehicle to be able to navigate the environment.

Originally posted by urg1995 on ROS Answers with karma: 31 on 2018-07-10
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by marvelousluke on 2023-03-12:
hi 1995,are you still there for the path planning research? now I'm faced with the same situation and your experience can be of help:)

A:

I don't know if this is exactly what you are looking for (this is not only regarding path planning), but here some sources that might be worth reading/checking out:

MAV trajectory generation repository - part of the RotorS Simulator (for UAVs)
Full body obstacle avoidance - StudyWolf (with example)
Dynamic movement primitives - Part 4 - Avoiding obstacles - StudyWolf

I know that the last two links might be a bit far from what you are looking for, but StudyWolf provides repositories with the code and examples, so it would be good to check it out.
Another thing that might be interesting is this work from the University of Girona integrating their AUV with MoveIt. Maybe they have more information on how that can be done as well.

Originally posted by Musa Marcusso with karma: 81 on 2018-07-19
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

