Q:

stepper or servo torque in one direction only

What I want to achieve is this. I have a rod, which I want to move only in the direction of its axis, but move it (ideally) without resistance, meaning that If i pull the rod, I want it to follow (possibly aided by a stepper?) and if I push the rod, I want it to move back (retract) without resistance. But I want to be able dynamically to push it or pull it up to a point and be able to lock it after that. Example: I want to push the rod for 12.5cm but after that I want it to prevent me from pushing more.
So, I would be able to push for max 12.5cm and not after that, but also be able to pull it freely (up to some points let's say 30 cm). Maybe a stepper could do that? Hold torque in one direction (once it reaches 12.5cm) but rotate freely in the other direction (pulling). I'm not even sure a torque sensor would help, since I'm not applying torque, or that even a stepper is the right thing to use.
What I mean by dynamically, is that those distances are not fixed and can change programmatically (arduino/PI doesn't matter). It's not an absolute requirement that the rod follows automatically aided by a motor (=no resistance), but would be ideal. The most important is that I want it to lock once it has reaches certain distances either while I pull or I push it (mechanically with my hand).

A:

The sketch shows the basics of a simple design. The rod, sketched in red, can slide left and right. It is kept axial by sliding through holes in the black guides. A washer, purple, is fixed to the rod.
The rod also passes through a hole in a movable stop, blue. Controlled by a microcontroller, the stepper motor turns the lead screw, which moves the nut left and right, which adjusts the position of the stop.
The rod can be pushed freely to the right, until the washer hits the stop. When it's at the stop, the rod can still be pulled to the left.
If it is required to be able to pull out the rod entirely, just change the geometry. Instead of the current guide-washer-stop-guide, you could get rid of the washer and have the end of the rod hit the stop, as guide-guide-stop.

