Q:

Cheapest 3D printer for gears?

It would be incredibly useful if I could print my own gearing solutions, even if I have to print the gears one at a time.  However, I do not know how the market's cheapest printers will accommodate this task.
--The gears need be 2-3 inches in diameter, and they will bear only a very light load (much less than 1 foot pound), so the material need not be strong or machinable. 
--The tolerances need only be sufficient for the teeth to mate robustly, preventing any hang.  Unfortunately, I do not have a sense of what tolerances will allow gears to mate properly.
--(If the machine is precise enough to print a hole to statically mate with a shaft of a specified dimensions due to friction, excellent.  If not, I can probably improvise a tiny shaft hole with adhesive.)
--Because this may be used in close proximity to pavement, a melting temperature in excess of 100F is desirable but not required.  
--Because any given element will interact kinetically only with other elements that have also been 3D printed (except a metallic shaft), compatibility with external resources is not required.  
I would be grateful to anyone who could shed some light on this issue!

A:

I run a rep-rap (Mendel Max) 3d printer ~ $1500AUD (built from scratch). 
I can't really comment on the print quality of other printers, but my statements about materials will hold for other printers.
I have printed usable gears down to about 1/2 inch diameter.
PLA has a melting point of about 150 Celsius and starts softening at about 60 Celsius, you could also print in ABS which has a slightly higher melting point but it gives of more toxic gases when heated for printing.
PLA is surprisingly strong, I've stood on a 40mm cube with out it breaking. I recently glued some PLA to a piece of MDF, when separating the materials the MDF broke - NOT the PLA.
There are various gear libraries on thingy-verse which make it easy to create meshing gears of the desired size.
Realistically if you build a 3d printer your self as I did, it will be months before you are printing usable gears.
You can quite reliably print the hole in the center of the gear to take a shaft, as well as printing bearing mounts.
There is a serious learning curve if you build your own 3d printer, that's not a bad thing - just be prepared for it!

