Q:

How to make ROS Indigo work with Gazebo 4?

Hi,
I have been trying to make ROS Indigo work with Gazebo 4.0.0 so I installed a full desktop ROS (ros-indigo-desktop-full) first on a fresh Ubuntu 14.04.1 LTS (Trusty Tahr) and then installed Gazebo 4.0.0 (Online Install). Both seem to work fine by themselves but when I try to install:
sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-gazebo-ros-pkgs ros-indigo-gazebo-ros-control
I get the following error:
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-indigo-gazebo-ros-control : Depends: gazebo2 but it is not going to be installed
                                 Depends: libsdformat1 but it is not going to be installed
                                 Depends: ros-indigo-gazebo-ros but it is not going to be installed
 ros-indigo-gazebo-ros-pkgs : Depends: ros-indigo-gazebo-plugins but it is not going to be installed
                              Depends: ros-indigo-gazebo-ros but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

What could the problem be? Do I have to use a different version of Gazebo?
Thanks

Originally posted by rmoreno on ROS Answers with karma: 31 on 2014-08-28
Post score: 3

A:

If you scroll down to "Project Status" on this page, you'll see that Gazebo 2.2 is the recommended version to use with ROS Indigo (ROS I).

Originally posted by Airuno2L with karma: 3460 on 2014-08-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 5

Original comments
Comment by rmoreno on 2014-08-28:
Thanks Airuno2L do I need to remove Gazebo 4 to install Gazebo 2.2? how can I completely remove Gazebo 4 from Ubuntu?
Comment by Airuno2L on 2014-08-28:
As mentioned here, try:sudo apt-get remove gazebo4

