Q:

Simulating a Camera with a Pan Tilt Unit

Hey there,
is there a simple way to have a pan tilt unit on my 4 wheeled robot (in simulation)? I have read some comments that indicated that this is possible in Gazebo, but I was not able to locate the correct plug-in. Perfect would be something like a pan tilt platform with a camera on top. However, for my tests it would suffice if I would be able to just turn the camera (so just pan - no tilt). So far I tried to use the "Planar Move Plug-in" on the camera_link, while still using the skid steering drive plug-in to move the robot, which resulted in the robot not being able to move anymore. I guess you cannot use those two plug-in's in one file.
Thanks for any suggestions. Marcus

Originally posted by Marcus on ROS Answers with karma: 164 on 2014-03-20
Post score: 2

A:

It appears the old way of using a PR2 controller manager is deprecated and does not work anymore in hydro (Example of a roll/pitch mount using that approach here).
Everything you need to know for using the new ROS Control approach should be explained in the ROS Control with Gazebo tutorial. Essentially, you need a URDF model with 3 links (connected via two joints). If you setup the two joint axes as required for your pan/tilt unit and load the controllers as explained in the tutorial, things should work and you should be able to command the joints into desired positions.

Originally posted by Stefan Kohlbrecher with karma: 24361 on 2014-03-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by Marcus on 2014-03-20:
Thx Stefan, I ll get started on that right away.
Comment by Marcus on 2014-03-25:
Hi Stefan, I have followed the tutorial, but now I cannot advance my work, because the controller cannot be loaded.
ROS --> "controller type 'effort_controllers/JointPositionController' does not exist."
Checking for the existing controller types the JointPositionController is not listed.
Thx,Marcus
Comment by Stefan Kohlbrecher on 2014-03-25:
Ok, I haven´t tried that tutorial myself, so can´t really comment. Given that this a specific problem different from the original post, it might be a good idea to ask a separate question about this.
Comment by Marcus on 2014-03-25:
Will do,
Thx again for the quick answer
Comment by Craig Hay on 2015-09-25:
Hi Marcus,
DId you ever get a pan/tilt camera working. If so, do you have code hosted anywhere? I'm trying to accomplish a similar task with a simulated Pioneer robot in Gazebo.
Comment by Marcus on 2015-09-28:
Hello Craig, in fact I did accomplish it. I introduced a new link/joint (e.g. pan_link/*joint). I set the joint type to revolute and found out how to move it through trial and error :). I do not host the code anywhere, but will try to upload the interesting parts of the urdf.xacro

