Q:

Compatibilities Ubuntu-ROS-ROSI

Is there any place where to find the compatibilities between the different UBUNTU-ROS-ROSI releases?
because I cant find it in all the different ros-wiki's

Originally posted by JoostW on ROS Answers with karma: 26 on 2016-08-26
Post score: 0

A:

The only packages in ROS-Industrial released into Jade at this moment are those in industrial_core. Those packages can be installed using apt-get (at least on Ubuntu).
As to the rest of ROS-Industrial: that has not been released, but as the differences between Indigo and Jade are relatively minor, most -- if not all -- packages should be usable under Jade. The only drawback is that you'd need to build them from source.

Is there any place where to find the compatibilities between the different UBUNTU-ROS-ROSI releases?

If with "compatibilities" you mean: into which ROS releases ROS-Industrial packeges have been released, then I'm afraid there is (currently) not a single location that displays that information.
You can however find out in multiple places if a package is released for a specific platform and ROS release:

look at the green 'badges' at the top of the wiki pages for the package: switch to the ROS release that you are interested in (using the version rocker at the top of the page), and look for a ✔ Released badge. If you can't find that, or the package doesn't have a button in the rocker for the ROS release you are interested in, then it's safe to assume it hasn't been released.
use any of the available release status pages, such as ROS Jade - release status for Jade. Those pages can be filtered: here is a query for industrial in Jade. See here for all status pages. If a package is not listed on that page, it's safe to assume it hasn't been released.

because I cant find it in all the different ros-wiki's

(slightly pedantic) but there is only a single "ROS wiki", the one at wiki.ros.org.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2016-08-30
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

