Q:

Robot model is not displayed when loading a urdf file using the moveit setup assistant #786

I have learned that this happened to Indigo before but I am using Melodic. the moveit-setup-assistant was working for me just last week. Suddenly, it does not display the robot after loading the model!

Originally posted by Victor Wu on ROS Answers with karma: 53 on 2020-09-08
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-09-08:
This is most likely ros-planning/moveit#2286 which has already been fixed.

Robot model is not displayed when loading a urdf file using the moveit setup assistant #786

what is the #786 you include in your title?
Edit: the issue you refer to. While a similar issue, it's so old it's unlikely to be related.
Comment by AlecPath on 2020-10-08:
I too am having this issue.  Even loading moveit configurations that worked fine in the past (just a week or two ago) no longer show the robot. Rviz works fine (demo.launch or my own setups) I did just update my apt packages, I'm not sure how long it had been since I had done so.
Going to the "Robot Poses" tab and selecting a pose seems to make the robot show up and subsequently function as normal, except if I go back to the "Robot Poses" tab it crashes (seg fault).

A:

The issue reported by the OP has been fixed.
Please refer to the issue I linked in my initial comment.
What hasn't happened yet, is a MoveIt release since it has been fixed.
So the binaries you are most likely using still have the problem.
There's little use in reporting the issue again, as it's a known one, and a solution is already available.

Even loading moveit configurations that worked fine in the past (just a week or two ago) no longer show the robot

the issue is not caused by "new configurations", so loading old ones does not change anything or help.
I would suggest to check the linked issue and follow-up there.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-10-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

