Q:

How to know if I have DDS installed?

I'm a bit of a noob on ROS2 and I'm starting to learn about the DDS protocol and its implementation on ROS2. So far, I've read that ROS2 already comes with eProsima Fast RTPS, however, I would like to make sure if this is really installed or not. How can I confirm this? Is there a terminal command or something I can do to test it?
Thank you!

Originally posted by anonymous53443 on ROS Answers with karma: 63 on 2020-04-11
Post score: 0

A:

Seeing as you've tagged this eloquent: if you've installed ROS 2 using the deb repositories on Ubuntu, you could check you have the required packages installed.
For Eloquent, that would be packages like fastrtps and rmw_fastrtps_cpp (see repo.ros2.org/status_page/ros_eloquent_default.html?q=fast for all packages).
To check you have those installed, you could use a command like this:
dpkg -l | grep fastrt

Note btw: this will not show you "whether you have DDS installed", it will show you whether you have the FastRTPS packages installed. Pedantic, but those contain only a single implementation of DDS. There are quite a few more, but those are not distributed by default with ROS 2.

Edit: from your screenshot it appears you have built ROS 2 from source. In that case the dpkg command I included earlier will not help you.
For source installs, you'll want to check you:

have the Fast RTPS sources in your workspace
they have been built during the overall ROS 2 build (with Colcon)
the install space has the Fast RTPS libraries in the lib sub folder.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-04-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by anonymous53443 on 2020-04-11:
Hey! Thank you for your answer. Below I included a print of my eProsima folder. Does this mean that I have fast-rtps installed and that I am able to communicate with a different machine?
https://prnt.sc/rxaepi
Thank you again
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-04-11:
I've updated my answer.
In the future: please always include pertinent details such as how you've installed ROS, which OS you're using, which version, etc. Without such information, we can only guess (which is what I did).
Furthermore: you appear to be using Ubuntu: I'd sugget to make sure you need to build ROS 2 from sources, as using the binary packages would be much faster and more efficient.
Comment by anonymous53443 on 2020-04-11:
Alright, sorry for that. I installed by source because for some reason I couldn't install it from debian.
Regarding, your edit, I have a couple of questions:

I don't have any Fast RTPS folder inside my ros workspace. Does this mean that it's not installed afterall?
I believe that when I first made the overall ROS2 build, everything ran smoothly
What do you mean with this third bullet point?
Thank you again

Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-04-11:\

I installed by source because for some reason I couldn't install it from debian.

Somewhat off-topic, but I would suggest to figure out why you couldn't, as installing .debs is typically a couple of minutes, while building from source often takes much more time.
You'll have to build everything from source now.

I don't have any Fast RTPS folder inside my ros workspace. Does this mean that it's not installed afterall?

This confuses me: you just showed a screenshot with the eProsima/Fast-RTPS folder in your ros2_eloquent src folder. Is that not your ROS 2 workspace?

What do you mean with this third bullet point?

After you build ROS 2, there will be an install folder next to the src folder in your ros2_eloquent workspace root. The lib sub folder of that should contain the Fast RTPS libraries.
But really, all of this is somewhat unnecessary, as, if:

your build was successful, and
you can run things like the ros2 topic list

things should be OK.
Comment by anonymous53443 on 2020-04-11:
Okay okay got it!
I thought you were talking about the workspace where I keep the packages I create.
Anyway, thank you very much for your tips and your overall help! :)

