Q:

How to save a vector based map

Hi I am using the laser_line_extraction package to create lines and vector out of the laser points. Is there any way to save these type of maps (line or vector based ) in ROS???? Thanks in advance.

Originally posted by johnbryant on ROS Answers with karma: 13 on 2018-07-30
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by PeteBlackerThe3rd on 2018-07-31:
How are you storing these maps in your program as they are built? Are they just a list of line segments or do you have additional meta data such as confidence or age?
Comment by johnbryant on 2018-07-31:
I only have the following topics that the /line_extractor publishes :

/line_markers [visualization_msgs/Marker]
/line_segments [laser_line_extraction/LineSegmentList]
Is there any way to save these line segments into a yaml or pgm file like you do with the gmapping package?

A:

I've had a look at the laser_line_extraction package and it extracts line segments from a single laser scan message. How are you building a map out of these lines?
There seems to be a step missing. The gmapping package aligns many laser scans with each other to create a single global map. It uses a regular grid to store this map so many scans can be easily added to it.
To make a vector based map you'd have to do the same steps but with line segments which is far more complicated to implement.
To save these maps you would need to use a standard vector format (svg, dxf, etc) or your own custom one. The pgm file format used by gmapping stores raster images so cannot store vector information.
I don't know of any out of the box ROS system that can achieve what you want but it would be a good project to get stuck in and build them.
Hope this makes sense.

Originally posted by PeteBlackerThe3rd with karma: 9529 on 2018-07-31
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by johnbryant on 2018-08-01:
Yes , I got it, I am trying to see how I would make this work, seems hard to implement it but for sure it is worth investigating. Thanks for the answer, it is a bit more clear now.

