Q:

Can I get Ubuntu with ros preinstalled anywhere?

Hello,
I have a new computer for my robot that I cannot connect to the internet where I work. I have another work computer that I do connect to the internet at work. I can download the Ubuntu installation to a thumb drive using the connected computer and install it on the robot computer, but when it comes to installing ROS I have to take the robot computer elsewhere to do so. The connected computer is very locked down and I can't install things like offline-get or anything that accesses the internet. It is a pain in the butt, and I'll probably end up removing the computer from the robot and taking it else where, I just figured I'd ask first.
Does anyone know if anyone provides Ubuntu installations with ROS preinstalled (I want to use Indigo on Ubuntu Trusty 14.04). I see there is a VM provided by nootrix that has this, but I don't want to use a VM, is it straight forward to strip the image from the VM and install it on the real computer? Also I don't know much about Docker, is my problem something the ROS Docker stuff might help?
Thanks

Originally posted by Airuno2L on ROS Answers with karma: 3460 on 2015-10-29
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by VictorLamoine on 2015-10-29:
You might be interested with this: http://askubuntu.com/questions/974/how-can-i-install-software-or-packages-without-internet-offline
Comment by Airuno2L on 2015-10-30:
Thanks, I've tried Keryx, it's similar to offline-get in that I need to install software on my connected computer that needs internet access which isn't possible with the firewall. The answer about making a usb copy of the Ubuntu repo is interesting though. I might give that a try at some point.

A:

There's .iso image that bundles Ubuntu and ROS https://github.com/tork-a/live-cd
If you take a look at the generator script, ros-%DISTRO%-desktop-full is already installed, as well as specific packages starting from this line.
Also, if you are already running Ubuntu and only want to install ROS without internet connection, you can create a thumbdrive using the .iso image from there and use it as the local DEB repository.
See readme for the usage. And pull request is welcomed.

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2015-10-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Airuno2L on 2015-10-30:
I'll look into this and report back. Thanks for the help.
Comment by Airuno2L on 2015-11-20:
This worked like a charm, I actually didn't even have to mess with the script, there was already an image in the archive that had everything I need. I tried to find the archive link to paste it here for others but couldn't find it again.

