Q:

Raspberry camera module not working on Raspberry Pi 3 B

Hi,
I have Raspberry pi 3 B module with Linux based Raspbian Image OS on it.But when I connect it with raspberry pi camera module v2.1 , it does not work. It does not show image during rqt_image_view on Remote PC.
I am using rosrun raspicam_node raspicam_node command for running camera through ROS. Please guide me if there is some solution.
H/w and s/w specifications:-
Remote pc : Ubuntu 16.04, ROS Kinetic
Raspberry pi 3 B module with Linux based Raspbian Image OS.
Raspberry pi camera v2.1
Thanks

Originally posted by rutujaharidas on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2019-07-14
Post score: 0

A:

So, out of the top of my head,

have you tried using picamera (https://picamera.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.13/) on the raspberry pi itself with the same configuration?  Its a good idea to test if the hardware is working with native libraries outside of ROS before you try ROS packages. If the camera isnt working outside of ROS then there is no way it will work with raspicam_node

Since you are using a remote PC, you should ensure your ROS multiple machines set up is working properly, publish a simple float topic on raspberry pi and see if you can echo it from remote PC

If step one and two is working then before using rqt_image_view on remote PC it is a good idea to rostopic echo the raw camera feed first and check if the topic is not empty.

Hope this helps.

Originally posted by indraneel with karma: 61 on 2019-07-14
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by rutujaharidas on 2019-07-14:
Hi,
As you mentioned I even tried to do it without ROS using following command raspistill -o image.jpg to capture images,but it still did not start the camera ,instead error came which told that It says no camera detected. And I even tried it on another raspberry camera module I had ,the error remained same. So I am not understanding if the camera has defect or the raspberry pi b camera port on which we attach our camera is at fault.
Thanks
Comment by indraneel on 2019-07-14:
Alright, then I am afraid this is not a ROS related problem, you could use other forums like stack exchange to get better accurate help on this issue.
Its hard to say whether the port has an issue or if there is a software problem. Just for the sake of it you could this thread for troubleshooting : https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/37683/raspberry-pi-camera-rev-1-3-is-not-detected
Hope you solve this problem soon. Good luck.
Comment by billy on 2019-07-15:
Have you included the camera in the Pi Config? It doesn't work out of the box.
Comment by rutujaharidas on 2019-08-26:
I have enabled the raspicam with raspi-config. It detected the camera with vcgncmd get_camera  (Returned supported=1 detected=1) .But when i do raspistill -o image.jpg. It gives me error that camera is not properly installed and it failed to create camera component. Please guide me if there is some solution to this problem.

