Q:

Make use of 3rd party packages

Hi guys..
I am a bit new with ROS, and I am struggling with making use of a 3rd party package. namely flir_ptu_driver.
I am not sure how to even make use of it. I tried creating a workspace, and git clone it into the SRC file.  but when i performed catkin_make and catkin_make install I received error messages saying

add the installation prefix of
"serial" to  CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH or set
"serial_DIR" to a directory containing
one of the above files. if "serial"
provides a separate development
packages SDK, be sure it has been
installed.

I am not sure what it means but hope some you guys could help guide through the setup phase of this ros stacks, or just in general.
I found one in the tutorial, but it seemed like it was more focused on a certain kind of stack, and not an "all-purpose" stack installation.

Originally posted by 215 on ROS Answers with karma: 156 on 2015-02-11
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-02-11:
Have you followed the introductory tutorials? They should give you at least some more insight into how things work with pkgs.
Comment by 215 on 2015-02-11:
I understand your concern..
yes I have been followed the introductory tutorial, and I know the mistake must be something very silly.. i've tried so many different things.. That i think i might have mixed them together..
This how my workspace is here: http://tinyurl.com/q9v9w92

A:

The error you are seeing tells you that flir_ptu_driver cannot find one of its dependencies, in this case the serial package.
Depending on what you actually intend to do, you have two options:

install the binary release of flir_ptu_driver: something like sudo apt-get install ros-DISTRO-flir-ptu-driver should work. All dependencies should also be automatically installed for you this way.

make sure you have all dependencies installed before trying to catkin_make the sources: you can do this with rosdep, like so (see also the rosdep documentation):
rosdep install --from-paths /path/to/your/catkin_ws/src --ignore-src

after you have sourced the appropriate setup.bash for your ROS distro.
Invoking catkin_make should now succeed (provided flir_pty_driver declares all its dependencies correctly).

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2015-02-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by 215 on 2015-02-11:
installed the serial dependencies , and it works now..

