Q:

The inertia matrix explained

Hello.
I'd like to find some documentation about the inertia matrix in Gazebo/ROS (this topic is located in between).
Here is the ROS wiki page:
http://wiki.ros.org/urdf/Tutorials/Adding%20Physical%20and%20Collision%20Properties%20to%20a%20URDF%20Model
Basically, what I do not understand, is that the inertia matrix could not be independent from the mass. How a discrepancy between a dummy inertia matrix and the real inertia matrix could impact the simulation?
Thanks in advance for any doc that could help me to understand this part of the robot models.

Originally posted by Arn-O on Gazebo Answers with karma: 316 on 2013-09-17
Post score: 3

A:

The inertia tensor encodes the mass distribution of a body, so it does depend on the mass, but also on where it is located.
The URDF tutorial you point to states that

"If unsure what to put, the identity matrix is a good default."

I highly disagree with this statement, as there is no one-size-fits-all inertia. In fact, this value will probably be too large for most links used in human-sized robots (or smaller). In my experience, heavier mobile base links (in the 50kg-100kg range) have inertias that fall within this order of magnitude, but almost all other smaller links (belonging to arms, legs, heads) have inertias that are between two and five orders of magnitude smaller.
That being said, this statement is only saying that for a given mass, you're assuming a fictitious mass distribution the yields the identity. Although it may seem unrealistic, it is possible to distribute mass so that a desired matrix results.

Originally posted by Adolfo Rodríguez T with karma: 275 on 2013-09-18
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 6

Original comments
Comment by hsu on 2013-09-18:
Adolfo, can you point me to the tutorial (or feel free to update it)?  I think more appropriately it should say: "...the identity matrix is unrealistic but a good default for stable dynamics especially when using LCP solvers such as ODE or Bullet.".  Thanks.
Comment by Arn-O on 2013-09-18:
Thanks for your answer. I've been confused by the way the tutorial was written.
Comment by Adolfo Rodríguez T on 2013-09-19:
Martin already updated it. The link is in the original question.

