Q:

Controlling digital servos

Many websites say that analog servo motors work on 50Hz and digital servo motors work on 300Hz. My question is, does this difference apply only to the inner control loop of the servo or does the user of the digital servo actually provide 300Hz PWM signal? To rephrase, are all (most) servos including digital ones controlled with 50Hz PWM, or are digital ones specifically controlled with 300Hz PWM? Thanks

A:

Digital servos accept the same pulse width and pulse repetition rate as regular analog servos.
a
b
With many RC servos -- both digital and analog -- as long as the "frame rate" (how many times per second the pulse is sent over the control wires to the servo, aka the pulse repetition rate) is in a range of 40 Hz to 200 Hz,
the exact value of the frame rate is irrelevant.
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
The RC radio receiver or Arduino or whatever is sending the pulses to the RC servo can send the pulses at any frequency in that range (and in many cases well outside that range), and the servo will Do the Right Thing.
The frequency listed by the servo manufacturer and the reseller for a servo (j) is not the frequency that must be used; it is the maximum of the range of frequencies that the servo is guaranteed to respond properly.
In particular, many people take a servo that is designed to respond to frame rates up to 200 Hz, and stick it in an airplane with a RC radio receiver that sends a frame to that servo 50 times per second, and the airplane flies just fine.
Many digital servos have a higher limit on the input pulse frame rate than many analog servos, but that's not what makes digital servos different from analog servos.
A few people -- such as people installing the tail servo of a small single-rotor helicopter (k), and people building quadcopters -- really need a servo or ESC that can support some frame rate much faster than 50 Hz.
They need to look at the specs and pick a servo with a supported frequency at least as high or higher than the update rate they need.
For example,
ArduCopter drives the stabilization loop at 100Hz (l) (m) (n),
so people using it must pick a servo or ESC that supports frequencies of at least 100 Hz.

