Q:

How can I use the universal robot package with gazebo?

I'm trying to use the universal_robots_ros_driver ( https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS_Driver)
package with a ur manipulator. However, I can't find any documentation regarding how to do this. All of their documentation, states how to setup ROS using real hardware. I just want to play around sending commands to a simulation. Could you please provide an examle (i.e. roslaunch ur_gazebo ur5.launch and launch the ur_control)?

Originally posted by StewartHemm74 on ROS Answers with karma: 46 on 2020-08-31
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-09-01:
Please do not delete questions with answers.

A:

All of their documentation, states how to setup ROS using real hardware. I just want to play around sending commands to a simulation.

Then it makes sense you can't find anything, as the driver is not used with Gazebo.
Only with real robots, or with ursim.

Could you please provide an examle (i.e. roslaunch ur_gazebo ur5.launch and launch the ur_control)?

No, because as stated earlier, ur_robot_driver is not used with Gazebo.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-08-31
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by StewartHemm74 on 2020-08-31:
So then there is no way to remap topic names or provide a ip_address of the robot in gazebo?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-08-31:
I don't understand your question.
Remapping topics is not something which only "works" when using the driver.
And only the driver uses IP addressing information, as it has to communicate with a UR controller. In the context of Gazebo, the IP address "of the robot" is not something which makes sense, as ROS topics / services / actions are used to communicate with the ros_control controllers running there.
Perhaps if you can provide some description of what it is you actually want to do, we can provide a better answer.
Comment by nullspace on 2020-11-01:
or atleast anyone say how to simulate it in gazebo by sending joint state coordinates
Comment by nullspace on 2020-11-01:
i want to control robot joints coordinate by publishing but i dont know how to do it please any one suggest any tutorial(other than construct-youtube videos) or any book

