Q:

Quadcopter PID Control: Is it possible to stabilize a quadcopter considering only angle measurements?

Good day,
I am a student currently working on an autonomous quadcopter project, specifically the stabilization part as of now. I am using a tuned propeller system and I also already considered the balancing of the quadcopter during component placements. I had been tuning the PID's of my quadcopter for the past 3 1/2 weeks now and the best I've achieved is a constant angle oscillation of the quadcopter by +-10 degrees with 0 degrees as the setpoint/desired angle. I also tried a conservative 7 degrees setpoint with the same results on the pitch axis.
As of now my PID code takes in the difference of the angle measurement from the complementary filter ( FilteredAngle=(0.98)*(FilteredAngle + GyroAngleVel*dt) + (0.02)*(AccelAngle) ) and the desired angle.

I have read somewhere that it is IMPOSSIBLE to stabilize the quadcopter utilizing only angle measurements, adding that the angular rate must be also taken into consideration. But I have read a lot of works using only a single pid loop with angle differences (Pitch Yaw and Roll) as the input. 
In contrast to what was stated above, I have read a comment from this article (https://www.quora.com/What-is-rate-and-stabilize-PID-in-quadcopter-control) by Edouard Leurent that a Single PID control loop only angle errors and a Cascaded PID loop (Angle and Rate) that utilizes both angle errors and angular velocity errors are equivalent Mathematically.
If I were to continue using only the Single PID loop (Angle) method, I would only have to tune 3 parameters (Kp, Ki & Kd).
But if I were to change my code to utilize the Cascaded Loop (Angle and Angular Velocity),

Would I have to tune two sets of the 3 parameters (Kp, Ki & Kd for angle and Kp, Ki & Kd for the angular velocity)?
Would the cascaded PID control loop give better performance than the single PID control loop?
In the Cascaded Loop, is the set point for the angular velocity for stabilized flight also 0 in deg/sec? What if the quadcopter is not yet at its desired angle?

Thank you :)

A:

It is possible to stabilize a quadcopter using only angle measurements in a single loop pid. However it is easier to stabilize a quadcopter using a cascaded PID controller. Yes you are tuning more parameters. Firstly you tune first the inner loop rate PID controller using the gyroscope's (the fast sensor, but drifts) angular rate readings then tune the outer loop stabilize PID using an angle setpoint and angle measurements from the sensor fusion of the angle readings from both the accelerometer and the angles integrated from the angular velocity readings from the gyroscope. I found that it was the easiest way to achieve stable flight coupled with my now current control loop rate of 530Hz.
Other related helpful questions with answers:

PID output does not reach setpoint precisely enough
Need help for a quadcopter PID

Resources:

https://www.quora.com/What-is-rate-and-stabilize-PID-in-quadcopter-control

