Q:

What should i do after tutorials

Hi everyone,
I was wondering, what should i do after the firs tutorials to improve my knowledge on ROS ? is there some corrected exercise we can find on the net ? do you think it is interesting to work on some rasberry pi to begin ?
Do you have some cheap hardware "ROS Friendly" to begin to work with ?
Furthermore, do you know some good book to learning efficiently ROS ?
I have the feeling, i'm beggining to know some of the theory, but i still have to practice !

Originally posted by StanSmooth on ROS Answers with karma: 62 on 2017-12-06
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by jayess on 2017-12-06:
What do you mean by "corrected exercise"?
Comment by StanSmooth on 2017-12-06:
I don't know (and that's why i'm here).
For instance having a Gazebo model of a robot, and having to write some publisher to operate a precise function or configurate of a packet for a specific case etc...
Comment by jayess on 2017-12-06:
Because you used the word "corrected" I thought that you were having trouble with the tutorials, as in they are somehow "incorrect."

A:

While it's good to start your own project, I do recommend you to get some ROS books and play with the code a lot, I've used "Mastering ROS for Robotics Programming" and it's quite good and you can follow their code with their repo here.
It goes quite in depth and guides you towards areas like motion planning, perception, sensor use, arduinos, raspberries and the whole stack, even some ROS Industrial like in the image:

Also, another piece of beauty is "Programming Robots with ROS" their repo is here, that book was made by the official maintainers of ROS, the OSRF guys. Be aware that this one is mostly in python, while the Master ROS book is mostly C++, so it's also good to keep that in mind.
I do like Peter's suggestion of getting hands on a project, but it wouldn't hurt at all to play with some already finished products to see how it all goes.
Best of luck!!!

Originally posted by bpinaya with karma: 700 on 2017-12-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by StanSmooth on 2017-12-06:
Thank you ! I was wondering if buying "Mastering ROS for Robotics Programming" worth it !

