Q:

Scripts cannot make reference to roscpp or rospy

Hello,
We are using ROS kinetic on a HP elitedesk 800 G2 mini (I7-6700T). Catkin doesn't work when we use any ROS functions in one of the scripts. For example for using the Joy package with a joystick it gives the following error (same error for every statement in the script):
CMakeFiles/joy_node.dir/src/joy_node.cpp.o: In function `main':
joy_node.cpp:(.text+0x70): undefined reference to `ros::init(int&, char**, std::string const&, unsigned int)'

When using the same scripts on other computers (with same ROS version) it works fine. What could be our problem? Can this be a Linux problem? We already tried to make a new workspace, reinstall ROS and adapting the CmakeList.txt according to some other questions asked on this forum.
Thanks in advance.

Originally posted by lsrp1 on ROS Answers with karma: 16 on 2017-10-20
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-20:
This is a linker error, so I suspect you're not linking to the proper libraries.
Can you show us your CMakeLists.txt?
Also: what distribution is this? Are you building ROS from source?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-20:
re: rospy: I'm not sure I follow. That is a Python library, so there is no linking there (at least not in the way a compiled language does/need it). If you have errors specifically related to rospy, please add those as well.
At most you could get cannot import .. errors I would say.

A:

hallo, the problem has been solved by re-reinstalling ubuntu to generic version. I had the low latancy version, which ddoesn't seem to work with ros.

Originally posted by lsrp1 with karma: 16 on 2017-10-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-20:
I'm not saying it didn't work for you, but that seems a bit strange to me. With "low latency version", are you referring to the low-latency kernel? That doesn't change your userland, so it would seem strange to me that it would impact something like ROS.
It would be good if you could give ..
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-20:
.. some more details about what version of Ubuntu you had/have installed, and what you did specifically. That would help future users coming across the same problem much better.

