Q:

Renaming a package

Hi there,
I created a package named 'A'. After a while, I wanted to create package 'B' that would be exactly the same as A, just changing some parts of the source code. Is there a way I can:

Rename the package A (so that roscd will recognize the new name for A)
Copy-paste A's folder, rename it and make roscd recognize it (as let's say, package 'B')

Otherwise, the only solution I can think of is roscreating the packages again. I'm sure there's a wiser alternative.
Thanks!
:)
Update: felix_k's answer works, but you have to execute 'rospack profile', so that ROS can register you have changed the names. Great! Thanks everybody.

Originally posted by jlo on ROS Answers with karma: 385 on 2012-02-22
Post score: 6

Original comments
Comment by felix k on 2012-02-22:
For most simple packages you only have to rename the folder, adjust the name in the manifest and python's load_manifest('...') lines. And any docs/src where it's hard coded, but that could be automatically textually replaced.
Comment by jlo on 2012-02-22:
It doesn't work. I have changed the folder's name and the name in the manifest.xml, but when I operate a terminal and write "roscd ROS" instead of "ROSnew" (the new name") it still uses the old one "ROSold". Any other ideas :/? I'm sure something has to be updated for the system to get it.
Comment by Martin Günther on 2012-02-23:
On my system (using zsh), I have to run "rospack profile" for roscd tab completion to work after moving a new package into the ROS path. If you type in "roscd ROSnew" (without tab completion), it should work anyway.

A:

felix_k's comment is the correct answer.  Be care to not copy any build artifacts, and make sure to change any package/namespace declarations in your code to match.

Originally posted by kwc with karma: 12244 on 2012-02-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 5

Original comments
Comment by nbro on 2017-04-27:
I think it would be more helpful to provide a step by step solution instead of pointing to someone's solution. I would definitely edit this answer to address what I'm saying, if I could.

