Q:

Can't install PCL with Homebrew on OSX 10.9 during ROS Hydro installation

Hi everyone! I've been following this tutorial (wiki.ros.org/hydro/Installation/OSX/Homebrew/Source) and got some great help from you all before. I need a little more help before I can get onto my feet and hopefully start helping others.
I am trying to install ROS Hydro on OSX 10.9 through Homebrew. Following the above linked tutorial, I am stuck trying to run this:

rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro hydro -y

And it will fail trying to install PCL. So I try running "brew install pcl" instead. I get:

Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!
make: * * * [cmake_check_build_system] Error 1

...along with a referral to the homebrew troubleshooting page.
Hansg91 suggested trying "brew install pcl -v" for more verbose output. Here's what I saw that I thought might be relevant:

==> make

CMake Error: Parse error in cache file /tmp/vtk5-1lKn/VTK5.10.1/build/CMakeCache.txt. Offending entry: File "setup_install_paths.py", line xxx, in module.

This error was repeated several times with different lines being mentioned and different error reasons mentioned (in module, in get_install_path, TypeError: 'int' object has no attribute 'getitem' - and more).
The final error listed that seemed to sum it all up was that vtk5 5.10.1 did not build - how might I be able to fix this?
I'm dead stuck. I have been following the tutorial to the letter, because otherwise I'd have no idea what I'm doing. Any ideas on how to get past this and continue with the installation? I can always provide more details if necessary. Thank you!

Originally posted by jc17 on ROS Answers with karma: 39 on 2014-06-14
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Hansg91 on 2014-06-17:
This is perhaps stating the obvious, but do you have vtk5 installed? What does "brew info vtk5" say?
Comment by jc17 on 2014-06-19:
It was installed at the time, but following demmeln's suggestion fixed things up

A:

In general, it would be good to provide the full verbose output (use a service like pastebin.com and post the link).
With your hint towards vtk5, I just noticed that there were some recent changes with the vtk5 formula, but I'm not sure if that is indeed the problem you are seeing. I would try the following:
brew update
brew tap --repair
brew uninstall vtk5
brew uninstall pcl
brew install pcl --HEAD

Originally posted by demmeln with karma: 4306 on 2014-06-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by jc17 on 2014-06-19:
This sequence ended up being the answer. D'oh, I'm a newbie to a lot of things in this universe and had no idea how often things update. Thank you!
Comment by demmeln on 2014-06-19:
Yes there are many moving targets for installing ROS... glad to help.

