Q:

Has anyone used any haptic devices in conjunction with ROS?

Or even just on Linux--the ROS interfacing is probably relatively simple. I'd be interested to hear of anyone's experiences with any kind of haptic input devices, though I'm interested mostly in something like a force-feedback joystick, as opposed to extremely high resolution haptics used for robotic surgery and the like. Thanks!

Originally posted by Patrick Bouffard on ROS Answers with karma: 2264 on 2011-02-16
Post score: 3

A:

At the Healthcare Robotics Lab at Georgia Tech we are using phantom omni haptic devices (cost around $1000) to control the PR2 arms.  We have a phantom omni driver with ROS wrappings in c++ and an example of how to interact with it from python.  You can find the two packages (phantom_omni and pr2_omni_teleop) at our gt-ros-pkg repository.  Documentation on requirements and installation is at http://www.ros.org/wiki/gt-ros-pkg.
In terms of our experience, overall we've been happy.  The workspace of the omni is at times limiting (especially in orientation of the stylus), but a remapping of the coordinate frames to a more suitable workspace might help if this is a problem for your application.  Also, the max force the omni can apply is low (on par with the Novint Falcon), but that's to be expected for a low impedance device.  Good luck.
marc

Originally posted by mkillpack with karma: 340 on 2011-02-25
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 5

Original comments
Comment by Patrick Bouffard on 2011-02-25:
Great, thanks Marc! In fact we've ended up borrowing a Phantom Omni but haven't had a chance to start playing with it yet. Interestingly, if I search for 'haptic' on the ROS wiki, the link you provided doesn't show up..
Comment by tufail on 2013-04-01:
Hi marc,
Would it be possible to use phantom omni device to control PR2 arms simulated in gazebo? If yes then what changes need to be made in the pr2_omni_teleop package? How would be the performance in real-time (as the Omni device is real, running at 1KHz, and PR2 is a simulated one)?
Thanks.
Comment by mkillpack on 2013-05-17:
I don't know the specifics, (i.e. topic names, etc), but there should be almost no changes.  I have run lots of other code on both the real and simulated PR2 with absolutely no changes.  The only problem is if your computer is too slow for gazebo to run in approximate real-time.
Comment by rem870 on 2013-07-17:
Hi,is it possible using your phantom_omni and the uos-ros-pkg to teleop the katana arm????thanks!!
Comment by mkillpack on 2013-07-29:
I'm not familiar with the uos-ros-pkg, but this is probably more dependent on the katana arm and uos-ros-pkg than the omni driver.  In general, the omni node subscribes to a 3 dimensional force vector for user force feedback and sends out a position and quaternion at approximately 100 Hz.

