Q:

How does a personal tracking tripod work?

There are certain tracking devices for cameras on the market these days. Here is one example.
The concept is, you wear a tag or a wristband and the tripod knows to track you while you're out surfing or racing around a track or running back and forth on a soccer field. I always assumed these work via GPS. But there is this other very recent question where it's been implied that tracking technology has been around since the 60s. While military GPS has probably been around that long, it also occurred to me that GPS perhaps doesn't have the high level of accuracy one would need to track precisely.
I'm curious to know what sort of technology these personal tripods use? How does it track its target?

A:

On the page you provided (https://soloshot.com/#features-lightbox), the technical characteristics for the tag indicate (the tag is what you need to have on you for the camera to follow you):

SS Link: 2.4 GHz
Wi-Fi: 802.11 b/g/n

And as for the Range:

Range (SS Link): 2,000 ft
Range (Wi-Fi): 30 ft

The 2.4 GHz is probably a data link between the tag and the tripod (Wifi or Zigbee).
It's GPS !
Extract from https://thetechnologyteacher.wordpress.com/2014/05/29/robotic-camera-follow-soloshot-swivl-aime:

First onto the scene was SoloShot. It was designed for surfers to record their practice runs. As such, it works great outdoor, it’s
water proof, and it has an incredible range. The technology it is
built on is Xigbee [typo: probably Zigbee] wireless communication and GPS. You do not need to
maintain line-of-sight with the marker armband. Unfortunately, it
does not work indoors, and can’t do anything close range.

For a better accuracy, you can use differential GPS. It will yield an accuracy of about 20 cm. Extract from Wikipedia:

Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) is an enhancement to
Global Positioning System that provides improved location accuracy,
from the 15-meter nominal GPS accuracy to about 10 cm in case of the
best implementations.

or unlikely Directional antenna
A directional antenna may be used with a small low power emitter in the tag device. The camera then simply try to keep pointed to the emitter with a more or less basic filter to smooth the tracking.
This technology is used to retrieve UAV if something broke in the UAV navigation system (for example when the USA is flying over a desert or over the see, with no visual helpful information, even if you still have the data-link on).
If the accuracy is very good, a big antenna is needed and probably won't fit on the tripod.
or very unlikely WIFI and MIMO
using Wifi's MIMO capability, you could also detect the angle of arrival of the Wifi signal using multiple antennas as receivers... but I doubt that this is a good solution.

