Q:

Computer vision with single camera vs. distance sensors for obstacle detection

I am going to start a new project consisting in implementing an autonomous driving RC car.
The car as it is now, has a camera installed on each side of the car, i.e. 4 cameras in total. They are connected to a board which is able to read and process the video input.
I have been researching about obstacle detection using a single camera (without stereo cameras, e.g. Single camera vision and mapping system ) and although it seems possible it also seems quite complex. Modifying the cameras set-up is not an option. I already have some video processing algorithms, like dense optical flow, which might help me, but I am not sure whether I might me able to implement the system in the time I have (4 months). I also don't know how reliable would be the final solution.
If the first approach is not feasible, as an alternative option I also could install distance sensors in the car to detect obstacles. It seems that usually the most preferred choice is to use ultrasonic sensors. I would need to install them and I would not take advantage of the cameras, but it seems that the final complexity would be lower.
Is the first approach feasible? What are the pros and cons of each approach? If I implemented the second option, how many sensor would I need?

A:

Honestly, I don't think you should use the cameras just because you have them. The ultrasonic sensor is a way simpler and more effective solution. There are ways to tell depth with one camera, but they are far from effective in most cases. If you want to try it, I would say play around it when you don't have a deadline if you're interested in the learning experience. As far as whether you could get it working in 4 months or not, it depends on how familiar you are with this kind of application.
If you really want to use the cameras, it might be easier to get another camera and mount it so that it's facing forward somehow, either on top of the car or somewhere else. This might be more effort than it's worth, though. I would go this route if you really want to use cameras for personal reasons.

