Q:

ROS Jade on Ubuntu 14.04 E: Unable to locate package ros-jade-desktop-full

I do these steps... I have Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty installed on a MAC PPC working perfect.

Made sure all Ubuntu repositories are correct.. Main, Restricted, Universe & Multiverse

sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://packages.ros.org/ros/ubuntu $(lsb_release -sc) main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros-latest.list'

sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-key 0xB01FA116

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install ros-jade-desktop-full

This is where I get stuck with the error:
E: Unable to locate package ros-jade-desktop-full

I actually went to the "repository" directory packages.ros.org and as I browse all the folders, I ask myself. Why do I not see a package called ros-jade-desktop-full .. are they in a different location specified by the DBs that I find in the repository?.. or maybe I am missing something I overlooked.  I am a moderate Linux user and I don't believe I missed something, but I am new to ROS so maybe I did.
Can anyone help me to ID the issue?

Originally posted by JohnnyQ on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2015-10-04
Post score: 0

A:

I have Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty installed on a MAC PPC working perfect.

This is the reason why you can't install ROS using the debian packages: there are no binary builds available for ROS on the PowerPC architecture (and I doubt there ever will be). Only x86, x64 and ARM-hf are currently built by the buildfarm, and for those architectures you can use the installation instructions on the wiki.
I can't actually find any explicit documentation on this (rep-3 fi doesn't mention any architectures), so it might be worthwhile to raise this issue on the ros/rep issue tracker and / or send a mail to ros-users about this.

I'm not at all certain whether it would work, but you could try to see whether a from source install works. Seeing as not many packages have been run or tested on PPC recently, I would expect at least some difficulty getting things to work.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2015-10-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by JohnnyQ on 2015-10-05:
I understand.. well I will build an Ubuntu install on a PC Tower and go from there. I don't have too much time to waste on figuring out if they will consider an install for PPC so I will do the other.. and that way its all fresh and new. thanks
Comment by JohnnyQ on 2015-10-05:
I wanted to add that its is strange that it won't install on an alredy working version of ubuntu on a ppc.. but oh well..
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-10-05:\

[..] if they will consider an install for PPC so I will do the other [..]

I did not suggest you ask for OSRF to start building PPC binaries, I suggested reporting the issue because the documentation should explicitly state which architectures are supported, so we avoid users getting confused.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-10-05:\

I wanted to add that its is strange that it won't install on an alredy working version of ubuntu on a ppc..

It's not strange: Ubuntu and ROS are two completely distinct pieces of software. Canonical apparently has PPC builds of Trusty. OSRF does not do PPC builds of ROS. There is no relation.
Comment by JohnnyQ on 2015-10-05:
Oh I did not mean due to relation, but in regards to it working under a PPC environment.  But no biggie.. you have been a great help and I do appreciate it very much.. thanks again.. peace.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-10-07:
Question not answered anymore?
Comment by JohnnyQ on 2015-10-11:
Sorry.. I had taken it out till I got an answer about the binaries. They will not make binaries for PPC so I am marking this as answered.  Thanks.

