Q:

Is catkin recommended for use outside of ROS?

I'm going through the exercise of setting up a new project that needs to be combined with other build-from-source pieces, and dealing with many of the same issues catkin was designed to solve: dependency, packaging, finding, etc.
So, my questions are:

Is it easy to use catkin with non-ros
projects?
Are there any ros-specific
pieces which will make this
difficult?
Is there a plan to move
catkin out into the wider
debian/ubuntu ecosystem / into official apt repositories?

I know
python-catkin, and python-bloom
already are

Originally posted by Asomerville on ROS Answers with karma: 2743 on 2014-02-24
Post score: 6

A:

catkin is 100% ROS agnostic. All ROS specific environment variables and settings are setup as hooks into catkin, so that catkin does not depend on ROS.
catkin has been used in non-ROS projects and can be run with only these dependencies:

CMake
Python
catkin_pkg (python library for catkin)

Other tools have varying degrees of ROS integration.
rosdep is used to convert dependency names listed in the package.xml into calls to the system package manager. For example, rosdep will convert boost to sudo apt-get install libboost-all-dev on ubuntu and to brew install boost on OS X.
bloom will generate Debian debs and (as of very recently) Fedora rpms for you, in a ROS agnostic way, but a lot of the features in bloom are ROS specific and github.com specific.
Other tools like catkin_simple do use some ROS specific stuff, but generally can be used without.
As for distribution. Currently we are still working towards a version of catkin which can be easily distributed through Debian proper, but it isn't a huge priority because you can easily bootstrap your build with catkin by just putting catkin's source code into your workspace.
You might even be able to see catkin in this video:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qe10ExwzCqk&t=2m8s
EDIT: More details have been posted here: http://osrfoundation.org/blog/project-tango-announced.html

Originally posted by William with karma: 17335 on 2014-02-24
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 7

Original comments
Comment by Asomerville on 2014-02-25:
Is there a guide for bootstrapping with catkin?
Comment by William on 2014-02-25:
You just checkout catkin into your workspace, along with your other packages.

