Q:

Using Move-It IK outside of ROS (Unity3d)

Hi Everyone,
Unsure whether this is even possible or not but just wondering if anyone has tried using the Move-It planning libraries outside of ROS? Specifically looking at trying to import them into Unity3d in order to simulate an industrial robot?
Does anyone have any idea where I could start with this or any other ideas? I have the robot working in ROS with move it planning and really like the IK and obstacle detection aspects and so would like to use this in Unity for a specific application.
Thanks,
Callum

Originally posted by callum91 on ROS Answers with karma: 46 on 2018-04-17
Post score: 1

A:

If you're just looking for kinematic playout (ie: visualisation), then perhaps the infrastructure in siemens/ros-sharp could be sufficient (urdf loader, trajectory/JointState visualisation, etc).
If you're actually looking for full use of MoveIt (ie: planning, sensor integration, etc) with Unity, that might get a bit involved, but parts of that could still be done with ros-sharp I imagine.
Most (if not all) of MoveIt's planning capabilities can be interacted with via topics, services and actions, and those should be accessible through ros-sharp as well. Making sense of / visualising the results returned by MoveIt though is something that you'll probably have to implement yourself.

Edit: if you're just after using the IK solvers directly (so not the planning facilities) then those are essentially C++ classes, so not sure how to integrate those directly without some effort. MoveIt does expose both FK and IK services which should be accessible using ros-sharp though.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-04-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-17:\

Move-It planning libraries [..] to simulate an industrial robot?

And pedantic maybe, but MoveIt is not a simulator.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-17:
Also note: there are more rosbridge-c-sharp/unity integrations available. I only mentioned ros-sharp as it already includes infrastructure to load urdfs and visualise trajectories etc.

