Q:

EKF or KF package that fuse IMU and Pressure Sensros data for Velocity estimation?

Hi
Im looking for a ROS package (KF or UKF or EKF) that can fuse IMU and Pressure Sensors data. I would like to have 6x6 estimated Velocity matrices( linear and angular) from the IMU and Pressure sensor data. IMU is 9 DOF ( orientation, angular_velocity and linear_acceleration) and the Pressure. Barometer(pressure sensor data) can be use for the underwater robot as assume the sea (water ) level is same(constant) and the pressure suppose to maintain same value my linear movement of the underwater robot (vehicle). Is it possible to use this package to fuse this IMU and Pressure data to obtain estimated Velocity (linear and angular)?
If no existing ROS package (that serve as velocity observer) and fuse IMU and Pressure data, then any other code or help that I can use and implemented in ROS?
Thanks

Originally posted by Astronaut on ROS Answers with karma: 330 on 2021-09-22
Post score: 0

A:

Take a look at this ROS package : http://wiki.ros.org/hector_localization

The hector_localization stack is a collection of packages, that provide the full 6DOF pose of a robot or platform. It uses various sensor sources, which are fused using an Extended Kalman filter. Acceleration and angular rates from an inertial measurement unit (IMU) serve as primary measurements. The usage of other sensors is application-dependent. The hector_localization stack currently supports GPS, magnetometer, barometric pressure sensors and other external sources that provide a geometry_msgs/PoseWithCovariance message via the poseupdate topic.

Originally posted by osilva with karma: 1650 on 2021-09-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Astronaut on 2021-09-25:
thanks. Ok will  check  it
Comment by Astronaut on 2021-09-29:
how to set up the launch file to use IMU and Pressure sensors?
Comment by osilva on 2021-09-29:
I recommend to start another question as per the FAQ guidance. Thank you
Comment by Astronaut on 2021-09-29:
I have done it. Please check it

