Q:

What compact PC to buy to run ROS in a mobile robot

Hi guys!
After a few months using my i5 laptop in a Pioneer 3 AT mobile robot with kinect and sick lms100 laserscanner, it's time to look for a suitable compact PC/board to put in my robot.
I am looking for a compact PC with enough power to run navigation nodes, kinect, laser, and so on and would like to ask for advice to the community. I've found new intel NUC i7 to be a possible choice (looking for something to work just out-of-the-box) but I'm wondering if that would be compatible with all ros and ubuntu stuff. Maybe it is a bit overkilled?
Checked some info about that here.
¿What compact PC do you think would fit my needs?
Any advice would be helpful! thx

Originally posted by danimtb on ROS Answers with karma: 68 on 2015-09-22
Post score: 5

A:

The intel NUCs are a very good out-of-the-box solution. An i7 is plenty of power, but the i5 versions usually are good enough for most people. Just be sure that you are not limited by the accessible ports. Think of how many USB, LAN, etc, or other ports do you need?
If you use many cameras, the USB ports could be a limiting factor if they are controlled via the same host controller.
Otherwise any custom build using mini-ITX offers a bit more flexibility. Then you have a choice of dual LAN ports, multiple USB3.0/USB2.0 host controllers, etc.
In our youBot, we upgraded the internal PC using the intel DQ77 mini itx, which is sadly not for sale anymore. But similar options with the newer generation processors should be available.
To power it from batteries, we use the mini-box openUPS which can switch seamlessly between Battery and external Power, and charge LiPos and other batteries, when connected to power.

Originally posted by daenny with karma: 376 on 2015-09-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 7

Original comments
Comment by danimtb on 2015-09-24:
I've seen some Gigabyte PCs too but have lower features than NUCs. I'll have a look at that mini-box openUPS you point to ensure correct power. Thanks!
Comment by l0g1x on 2015-09-24:
Im currently using a i7 NUC on one of my robots, and its awesome

