Q:

ros-indigo package not found

I have been following for installing ROS-Indigo on my Ubuntu 14.04.1 (installed in VirtualBox on Windows 10).
After the sudo apt-get update command, I tried running the sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-desktop-full command, however the following error popped up:
E: Unable to locate package ros-indigo-desktop-full.
Further I tried running the following commands as well, but to no avail:

sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-desktop
sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-ros-base

They gave the same package not found error.
I searched the Ubuntu 14.04 package list here, and did not seem to find any package related to ros-indigo.
Note: I am not much experienced with the Linux environment and would be grateful for any help in this regard.
Thank You

Originally posted by codeahead on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2018-04-06
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-06:
You might have missed a step in the installation tutorials. What is the output of:
ls -al /etc/apt/sources.list.d

If there is no file that adds the ROS repositories there, that might be your problem.
Alternatively, something could have gone wrong while importing the key. I'd check that too.
Comment by codeahead on 2018-04-06:
The output of ls -al /etc/apt/sources.list.d is empty, i.e. there is nothing inside the sources.list.d directory.
I followed this tutorial, and here it creates opt dir inside /etc and there I can see this file ros-latest-list. Does this mean anything?

A:

I would recommend to follow the regular installation tutorial: wiki/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu.
In any case: there is a typo in the tutorial you link: it should be apt, not opt (note: a, not o).

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-04-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by codeahead on 2018-04-08:
Thank You for pointing out the typo. The installation works now.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-08:
You should probably report that typo to the author(s) of the tutorial you were following.
Without the fix, nothing will ever work.

