Q:

Catkin and Qt_ros. How to build

Hi,
I'm a bit lost with the integration of Qt with ROS. I have to make a few custom interfaces for my university project (a nifty robot that do cool stuff) and I was thinking about using Qt to make them since we already have a lot of experience with Qt C++ in my team.
The problem is, my workspace is using catkin and the package qt_ros (with the node roscreate-qt-pkg) seems to create files that are made for rosbuilder. By example, it create a manifest.xml (wich I think is deprecated in groovy) and the CMakeLists.txt is really different from the ones I get from catkin-package. So, my node is not built at all when I execute catkin_make. How am I suppose to do it?
I really like ROS and all his tools, but if I can't create my interfaces quickly we will have to switch to another technology or think about an alternative to talk to ROS from another application that contains our interface : (.

Originally posted by phbou72 on ROS Answers with karma: 130 on 2013-03-05
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by phbou72 on 2013-03-05:
Do I have to make this : "Simply make in place (native compile) or use rosbuild2 to cross-compile with mingw"?!

A:

In Groovy, most of the building tools used in previous distributions are still valid. So you can build your stuff that you have been able to build with catkin, and also build the packages that you made with qt_ros, and run them. Upon runtime, build system used should not matter afaik so that you can mix them.
Wiki pages of qt_ros neither specifies that they don't work on Groovy nor  buildsystem to be used. Considering that it worked pretty well for me with rosbuild on fuerte, I recommend to use it first with rosbuild (run rosmake).

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2013-03-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by phbou72 on 2013-03-06:
What is better : reconfigure my catkin workspace to only use rosbuild instead or try to mix the both of them? I need to reuse code and messages I have in my catkin workspace since my nodes will eventually speak together.
Comment by 130s on 2013-03-06:
I updated my answer since it wasn't clear, but yes mixing them shouldn't be a problem afaik.

