Q:

KUKA Robotics API IDE

I've got Robotics API library, a demo program and a robot. I want to develop an app for it. The best solution is offline development on some kind of simulator. I'm completely new in such tasks - is there any IDE for this? Or a way do deliver byte-code to machine? Thanks in advance!

A:

If it's your first time, better off try with a simulator to check that your program doesn't break the robot's constraints or security configurations. 
The most powerful simulator I came across is "V-REP", which is free for educational purposes.

V-REP is the Swiss army knife among robot simulators: you won't find a
  simulator with more functions, features, or more elaborate APIs.
The robot simulator V-REP, with integrated development environment, is
  based on a distributed control architecture: each object/model can be
  individually controlled via an embedded script, a plugin, a ROS node,
  a remote API client, or a custom solution. This makes V-REP very
  versatile and ideal for multi-robot applications. Controllers can be
  written in C/C++, Python, Java, Lua, Matlab, Octave or Urbi.
V-REP is used for fast algorithm development, factory automation
  simulations, fast prototyping and verification, robotics related
  education, remote monitoring, safety double-checking, etc.
  http://www.coppeliarobotics.com/index.html

and answering @ben:

I don't think there is any sort of IDE, the way VisualStudio or
  Arduino have IDEs. However, I do know that Kuka does have some fancy
  work-cell simulation and analysis software. This kind of thing is for
  laying out large industrial floor plans and optimizing efficiency.

In fact, KUKA's latest robots "LBR iiwa" come with a sophisticated Eclipse-based IDE called "KUKA Sunrise.Workbench.", you program your 7 DoF robot's arm directly with Java and Kuka's complete API.
And you still can program the robot with the control pendant (They call them SmartPAD) or C++ by communicating via a UDP interface called FRI (Fast Research Interface Library).

