Q:

Reliability of Raspberry Pi in Wild Life Guardian Drone project

I'm new here, my name is Mark, I'm 24 years old and I'm a Linux lover, by 2020 I intend to build up a wildlife guardian drone based on the Raspberry pi which will be connected to the internet but that will operate by its own using artificial intelligence.
Talking about this to a technician at my school in Italy, I have been told that the Raspberry is not suitable for an important project but just for little experiments.
The way he said that seemed to me just a bit too dismissive but he made me become doubtful about the Raspberry's quality so I hope you guys can help me understand if the Raspberry can suite my ambitious plan to build a guardian drone to protect the wildlife of a very little Papua New Guinea island or if it will break the first time it encounters trouble.
Is the Raspberry pi 3 only for little experiments or will it also work for very important stable projects like building robots?

A:

If you want your drone to operate by itself, it must have some degree of intelligence, which means powerful computation resources are needed. 
Assuming you intend to use computer vision for the drone to navigate, then it needs to process video stream real time, which is far beyond what Raspberry can do. However, if you construct an super "elegant" AI, a Raspberry would suffice. But this takes a lot of effort. MIT has built a system that can make an aircraft navigate in the forest, which is very impressive. Since details of the project is not shown in the question, I don't know what kind of intelligence it requires.
By the way, Raspberry alone is not capable of controlling a drone. You are going to need ESC(electronic speed control) to control the motors.
Another solution is that the drone transmits all data to the server, where AI algorithms process the data then give the drone commands. But the method involves other problems. First, it's hard for the drone to transmit the data for long distance. If you want to make the wireless communication reliable and keep the cost down, 2Km might be the limit on complicated terrain. In your case, 2Km may be able to cover the island. You also need to make sure the transmitter won't overheat during operation. Second, real-time processing cannot be guaranteed. If the velocity of  your drone surpass 20m/s, the command delay would be a disaster. 
In conclusion. Raspberry is not well-suited for your project, but it's still possible. I found that innovation often comes from those outsiders. So try it, even others tell you it's not possible. Some axiom may be true, but they are only applicable to most people in most conditions, not all.

