Q:

How to install/setup/use navigation stack

Hi,
I have built a MIT-Racecar which has ROS, ubuntu, Ackermann and VESC. The car can be driven with a teleop who sends out ackermann_msgs/AckermannDriveStamped type messages in ROS. The car also publishes /tf, /odom, hokuyo 2D LiDar related /scan messages, and ZED stereo camera related image and camera message.
I am a little confused about what exactly I need to do next to make it autonomous. After reading the navigation stack tutorial on ROS Wiki, I think I need to do the following:

Install the navigation stack by
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-navigation

Create a ros package under my MIT-Racecar workspace and setup the config and launch files as described in http://wiki.ros.org/navigation/Tutorials/RobotSetup

Since I am using Ackermann, I need to install and setup teb_local_planner.

Run the stack with launch file generate in 2 by
Terminal 1: roslaunch my_robot_configuration.launch
Terminal 2: roslaunch move_base.launch

Use teleop to drive the car around to map the environment I am in (probably need to set some flag when I run the command in 4).

Run command in 4 in localization mode.

Set a gaol for the car, and then it will drive there autonomously.

Am I correctly in these steps?
Thank y ou very much.

Originally posted by AutoCar on ROS Answers with karma: 102 on 2018-07-06
Post score: 1

A:

yes you are correct. you can get a better idea of how this all works with the clearpath husky demo
Try running the mapping tutorial, then the amcl tutorial and you will have a basic understanding of how the navigation stack works. When you use your own robot, its just a matter of a different launch configuration.

Originally posted by aarontan with karma: 135 on 2018-07-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by AutoCar on 2018-07-07:
What SLAM algo does the ROS navigation stack use? gmapping, hector, ...
Comment by aarontan on 2018-07-08:
this depends on you, if you go through the husky clearpath demo, they use gmapping
Comment by AutoCar on 2018-07-15:
If I install the ROS navigation stack by sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-navigation, does it install gmapping? Or I have to install gmapping separately?
Comment by aarontan on 2018-07-16:
yes i believe it should

