Q:

How to convert vertical motion to horizontal?

I am interested in using this miniature motor Squiggle Micro Motor to create very tiny horizontal movements. However, due to very limited space, I can only place it vertically within my project.
Assuming this motor is placed as follows, how can one adapt it to simultaneous movement at a right angle? (Ideally with the X-axis movement matched to the Y-axis movement as well as possible.)

A:

If this is true linear motion (non-rotational) then you will need some sort of a pivoting linkage in between the two units to transfer one motion to the other. Something like this would probably work:

As the lower link moves vertically, it rotates the red gear which in turn pushes the second link horizontally.
However, given that your image shows more of a screw type link, I feel like the lower link will be rotating (correct me if I'm wrong here). In that case, then a different approach would need to be taken - at least, a rotational ball joint would need to be used to attached the rotating unit to any linkage.

A:

The mechanism suggested in the previous answer is a form of
four-bar linkage.  A bell crank is a slightly simpler form of basically the same thing.  You could push on one side of a bell crank with the end of the motor shaft, and use a spring return for the other direction if it is difficult to attach to the shaft.  (The shaft apparently rotates, but the Squiggle motors site doesn't say if it does or doesn't, and the pictures, videos, and technical drawing PDF files are not clear on this point.)
Also consider using a flexible-wire push-pull control cable, or a push cable with  spring return; or push a wedge up to produce cam action.

A:

I think a more compact and reliable solution would be to use a third shaft that is perpendicular to the other two (on the Z-axis)
Given the shaft moving up/down is moving on the Y-axis and the shaft moving left/right is moving on the X-axis.
This crude diagram should explain things better.
As the motor turns Shaft A upwards it then turns Shaft C. Shaft C then moves Shaft B left and right
The addition of Shaft C would make this vertical to horizontal conversion precise and compact.
Note that the only rotating parts are Shafts A and C. Shaft B would only move left and right.
And unlike Kurts answer there's no need for messy joints at the end of each shaft.

