Q:

Development boards to use with ROS

There are already some questions of this type around the ROSanswers, however they are either pretty outdated or lack information.
Since I'm going to develop an UAV I'm searching for a development board that's small and light, as some GPIO ports with PWM (since I will need to control rotors on my  aerial vehicle), some USB ports (I would need at least 3, but if the board has less than that I can probably work around that with an usb hub), good enough performance to handle GPS, IMU and camera data and that runs Ubuntu (12.04?) and ROS.
From what I saw till now boards like beaglebone black and raspberry pi seem to work with ROS, however I couldn't actually find projects that use this boards in order to prove how well they behave.
Can you help me?

Originally posted by nvoltex on ROS Answers with karma: 131 on 2014-04-28
Post score: 2

A:

I know a number of projects have had good luck with the BeagleBone Black and the Odroid U3. The beaglebone will have more I/O, and the Odroid U3 will have significantly more processing power. I've seen a few unpublished projects now that are running an Asus Xtion device off a Odroid U3 using ROS, and doing some pretty cool work.
I also know at least one group that is successfully running ROS on the Radxa Rock board, and it seems like a pretty solid board.
The new Nvidia Jetson TK1 board looks interesting, but they haven't started shipping yet, so there haven't been any projects using them. It it runs Ubuntu, you should be able to install ROS on it.
I would stay away from the Raspberry Pi. They tend to be underpowered and overhyped, and it's more difficult to install ROS on them.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2014-04-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by nvoltex on 2014-04-29:
The beaglebone black seems like a great board and it was the one I prefered to begin with. Is the Ubuntu and ROS installation smooth? I have never worked with that board (in fact I have never worked with any non-pc board besides arduino). Do you have any links to ROS projects on beaglebone? Thanks
Comment by nvoltex on 2014-04-29:
Oh! Besides that, using an usb hub (with external power) won't be a problem with such a board, right? Cause the board only has 1 usb port.
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-04-29:
I got my beablebone black up and running with Ubuntu and ROS in a few hours; the installation was quite smooth. I've seen a couple of projects using them in person, but I don't think any are published online.

