Q:

What are the pros and cons of Zip Chain Actuators in robotics?

Well, I just found out about these Zipper Chain Linear Actuators, but I couldn't find much information comparing these types to other types of actuators.
For example, what is the performance of Zip Chain Actuators compared to Linear Screw Actuators?

Of course, these are industrial level types of linear actuators, but you could make then out of 3D printing parts and achieve "good enough" capabilities.

A:

The primary feature of a zip chain actuator is that it does not need extra depth to retract into. A standard linear actuator has a slider that will travel back behind the point of actuation. It will often need as much space behind the actuating surface as in front for its range of motion.
Whereas a zip chain actuator moves the volume to the side or other directions to allow you to have a lower profile actuator housing for a larger displacement distance.
There are other trade-offs, such as stiffness, precision, and other things that may vary between the different actuators that you might choose.

A:

@Tully's answer is great, but I just wanted to provide some examples.
Most linear actuators need a fair amount of collapsed height.  The ratio of length when extended to collapsed is usually around 2:1.  For example in the lead-screw based actuators in your question.
Of course, you can do better with a telescoping mechanism.  For example this telescoping ladder.  The ratio of extension to collapsed heights for this ladder is about 4.5:1.

However, a zipper mast is similar to a tape measure, where you can achieve a huge extension relative to a very small collapsed height.  The extension ratio of this tape measure is about 64:1.

For stability, the zipper mast is usually constructed from 2 or more "tape measure" like things, that zipper or interlock together.  Because the trade-off for this huge extension ratio is stability.  Also, I believe zipper masts are best at transmitting force in the extension direction.  They are very weak in other directions.  For example, you shouldn't use them horizontally.
One awesome application for a zipper mast is a retractable camera mast on a robot.  For example this demonstration on a PackBot.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TFvwp5vReSw
It would be difficult to achieve such an large height extension with any other type of mechanism because they would require a large stalk on the robot, even when retracted.
Only you can determine the right type of linear actuator and what is "good enough" for your application.

