Q:

Mechanical or electrical engineering for robotic and automation?

I have decided to pursue a career in automation and robotic. At the moment, I am being torn between Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. I know that both of them relate to my choices of career, and at the moment, I think that I like them equally. I hope you guys can help me solve my dilemma by using your insights/experiences to assist me with the following questions:   
1/ From your experiences and opinions, which of the two engineering fields is generally more crucial and challenging, especially in an automation/robotics project?
2/ Which will see an increase in demand and importance in the near future? Which of them might become outdated/obsolete or at least develop at a slower rate compare to the other?(I have a feeling that EE has a slight edge over this matter; however, I am not so sure)
3/ Which of the fields is more versatile? Which is more physical demanding (I am actually quite frail)
4/ Which is generally easier to self-study? Robotics is obviously an incredibly broad and complex field and I have prepared to step outside of my comfort zone and do lots of studying by myself to achieve my goals and passion.  
I could probably come up with a few more questions; however, I am sure that you guys got the gist of my puzzle. Thank you very much and I apologize if there is any grammatical error.

A:

As others mentioned, you should look into CS. In the broad strokes:
ME - build physical robots, + tangible, - might be physically demanding, - can be costly (need parts)
EE - build circuits, low level control, + less physically demanding, + tangible (now you have robot that does something), - can be costly (might need whole robots) 
CS - build robot's "brain", + not physically demanding, + cheap for simulation, - less tangible (you need EE/ME folks if you want to see your algorithms on the physical robot), - experiments are expensive (for the same reason). 
Of course, robotics is multi-disciplinary field and all three are closely related with blurred lines between them. Try all and see what clicks. 

