Q:

OpenNI 2 and Groovy

Hi !
I am currently using ROS Groovy with my robot. I was using OpenNI and NITE 1.5 but I had some bugs so I would like to change to OpenNI 2.
I found the drivers openni2_camera on Groovy. But I was also using openni_tracker with Groovy, and the new version openni2_tracker is only available for Hydro. Does someone know what I can do ? Is the Hydro version compatible with Groovy ?
Same thing for using the Kinect, I saw that openni2_camera is not working for Kinect, so I will try with freenect_stack, but will openni2_tracker work with Kinect and freenect_stack ?
Thanks for information,
Caroline

Originally posted by CarolineQ on ROS Answers with karma: 395 on 2013-10-07
Post score: 0

A:

I was able to successfully get openni2_camera and openni2_tracker compiled and working for both Groovy and Fuerte.  But when I actually tried to run the tracker, I kept getting errors.  Looking at the source code for the tracker, it became clear that the port to OpenNI2 wasn't quite complete yet.  Since I last tried it, there have been a few commits, but it still doesn't quite look done (to me).  I'm sure they wouldn't mind a pull request if you had time to help finish it off.

Originally posted by jarvisschultz with karma: 9031 on 2013-10-08
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by CarolineQ on 2013-10-08:
Thanks for the answer. When I try to compile openni2_tracker, it's looking for an include file nite.h and I get an error message. So I tried to download Nite 2.0 and install it but it doesn't change anything. Do you know what I need to get this include file ?
Comment by CarolineQ on 2013-10-08:
Ok I just found the solution to get it compile. I just needed to take the environment variable created by Nite and export them. I will test the tracker and say if it's working or not. Thanks again.
Comment by CarolineQ on 2013-10-08:
I managed to test the user_tracker and it works. At the beginning I had problems because I was not in the right directory. To make it run I needed to be in the 'Redist' directory of Nite2.0 and also you don't need to run openni2.launch as I was used to do with last version of openni. Hope this can help you.
Comment by jarvisschultz on 2013-10-09:
Those are basically the same steps I had to take to get things running on my computer as well.  Sorry for not posting a more complete solution! I haven't tried running running the tracker in a few weeks, maybe it's time to try again.  Cheers!

