Q:

ROS Answers SE migration: QT and ROS

Hi guys,
I have recently started using Qt for some basic GUI front end for my applications in ROS. I am currently using Qmake directly to perform the necessary operations with my ROS program.
I would like to know what is the benefit of using the Qt-ROS package over the normal Qt? Because I am currently developing my Qt app with the help of Qt creator and using terminal signals for various push buttons and other such operations.
Is there any benefit other than having Qt inside the ROS package?

Originally posted by SivamPillai on ROS Answers with karma: 612 on 2012-08-15
Post score: 3

A:

Though not a complete answer, here are some advantages of using qt_create pkg in qt_ros stack:

Upon creating pkg, CMakeLists.txt will be modified, which allows you to build pkg (by rosmake) that uses Qt on the fly

MOC files will be generated automatically
include paths, library paths are filled.
Qt's resource files will be integrated.

A class automatically generated called QNode provides interface between ROS and your Qt codes.

Although qt_create is deprecated in fuerte(http://www.ros.org/wiki/qt_create), it still works fine on my environment. HTH.

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2012-09-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by SivamPillai on 2012-09-06:
Thanks for that bit of info. If you say qt_create is being deprecated from fuerte then is there any replacement for that for the fuerte and future releases? Because being at the starting point i really would not want to use a deprecated stack. Thanks
Comment by Daniel Stonier on 2012-09-06:
The stack is not getting depracated, just the tool which is moving to a pypi package. I haven't advertised that yet, because fuerte and qt_ros is in the middle of the ros catkin upgrade. Feel free to pip install that package though.
Comment by Daniel Stonier on 2012-09-06:
Groovy will finally see qt_ros as a catkin package sitting alongside a create script coming from that pypi roscreate package.

