Q:

What is the input data for Octomap algorthim?

HI every body…
i am new at ROS world i am trying to implement octomap, but first i have to learn more about it.
Does any one tell me what is the input data should i feed to the Octomap ?
how much SLAM related to Octomap?
if i have 3d ultrasonic spare point cloud, can i mapping them with Octomap?
can i use Octomap for localization?
what is the minimum hardware requirement needed for good Octomap implementation?

Originally posted by MjdKassem on ROS Answers with karma: 13 on 2019-06-19
Post score: 0

A:

I might be able to answer some of the questions you have. Octomap accepts sensor_msgs/PointCloud2 message type as its input. (It might accept other point cloud types too). The Octomap research paper contains most of the things you need to know about its background.
I have tested Octomap in a raspberry-pi 3B, which has 1GB RAM, and a 4 x ARM Cortex processor. It can process an octomap in an acceptable speed, with a 4 cm resolution. But I strongly recommend a computer with higher hardware specifications if you need to build a coloured octomap, or if you need a higher resolution.
For localization, you can use ROS navigation stack, which can be aided by your Octomap.

Originally posted by TharushiDeSilva with karma: 79 on 2019-06-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by MjdKassem on 2019-06-20:
What do you mean by sensor_msgs/PointCloud2.?
Is there any another type of that point?
If I have real sensor like Lidar ...,does octomap deal with physical sensors directly?
You can link me some tutorial because I am just a
ROS, maybe it is early to ask like that quesion, but I have to prepare  proposal about my future work
So I have to imagine the wider idea about my research..
Thank you for your response
Comment by Bwmetis on 2020-05-20:
@Tharush - what camera did you use? We're using a similar setup for some of our investigation ( also the Ultrasonic > PCL map) work.
Comment by TharushiDeSilva on 2020-05-29:
I used a Microsoft Kinect 360. It's a RGB-D camera

