Q:

roscore doesn't start normally anymore?

Hello all,
since a week or so, starting roscore doesn't work normally om my machine.
The program hangs most of the time, there is nothing more than the command I entered.
It only  starts if I Ctrl-C the hanging roscore, then it suddenly starts. Very strange.
If I, e.g., start rviz it has the same behaviour (often), it only really starts when I ctrl-C the hanging program.
There were no ros-updates in the last month I think.
I am running ubuntu 14.04 and indigo, all standard.
What can we wrong here?  Thanks in advance,
Sietse

Originally posted by Sietse on ROS Answers with karma: 168 on 2016-01-11
Post score: 0

A:

It only starts if I Ctrl-C the hanging roscore, then it suddenly starts.

It normally takes care of this by itself, but sometimes ROS needs a little help: run a rosclean check and see if it also hangs (or takes a very long time to complete). That is the program that is run first by roscore: it keeps tabs on the nr of log files (and their total size). On a regular HDD (so not an SSD), that can take quite some time.
If rosclean check also 'hangs', you can either run rosclean purge, or manually rm ~/.ros/log/*.log. In both cases make sure you have nothing there you'd like to keep.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2016-01-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Sietse on 2016-01-11:
rosclean check check returns immediately, there was 109MB logging.
After rosclean purge nothing is changed, so that isn't the problem...
Any other possibility?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2016-01-11:
Make sure you don't have any incorrect info in your /etc/hosts, or a wrong ROS_IP / ROS_HOSTNAME in your .bashrc. Especially on university / corporate networks (where addressing may change without notice) that sometimes leads to strange (and hard to diagnose) issues.
Comment by Sietse on 2016-01-11:
Thanks, that was it!  It was some mixup between an extra network interface (to connect to our robots) and the university-linux-network-setup.
Comment by robtos on 2023-07-02:
/etc/hosts /etc/nss  and  /etc/nsswitch.conf  check . ping 127.0.0.1 slowly

