Q:

rosbridge_suite to recieve meshes

Hi,
I'm using rosbridge_suite to visualize the robot on a windows machine in VR.
Ideally, I would like to recieve the complete robot's description directly from the robot.
I managed to recieve the plain URDF xml via "/rosapi/getparam robot_description".
Is there any possiblity to load the meshes which are referenced in the URDF in a similar way?
Or do I have to copy them manually?
Thank you for your advise!

Originally posted by Martin Bischoff on ROS Answers with karma: 71 on 2017-01-19
Post score: 1

A:

I solved my problem by writing a ROS service that requires a "package://..." filename as input and returns the contents of that file. It is basically a very simple read-only ROS file server.
I like this solution since:

i do not need to set up additional server beside ROSbridge
in contrast to the ros3djs solution, i can load the meshes directly from the ROS PC and do not need any external repositories.
i can read the Collada mesh files in a very similar way as i read the urdf JSON message on the client side.

Originally posted by Martin Bischoff with karma: 71 on 2017-01-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-01-20:
Nice.
So where is it ;) ?
Comment by Martin Bischoff on 2017-10-13:
I didn't forget your question. We published the code open source recently. See https://github.com/siemens/ros-sharp/tree/master/file_server
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-13:
Very nice! And very good to see that you got things to work so nicely.
Thanks for reporting back. That is much appreciated.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-13:
ROS # looks like an awesome tool. +many for making that available.
If you haven't already, consider announcing it on ROS Discourse. That should get it the attention it would seem to deserve.
Comment by Martin Bischoff on 2017-10-13:
Thank you! We brought it open source only recently. We haven't made much advertisement outside the company (yet). We are looking for supporters for that project. Feel free to support me spreading the word! :-)
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-13:
I can't post an announcement of your project on Discourse. That'll have to be you :).

