Q:

How to maximize stall torque of a motor

I'm looking to use 3-phase motor without gearbox for robotics application. It will always work at near stall situation never rotating more than 360deg. I'm looking for arrangement that will produce max stall torque while drawing min current.
I tried both gimbal (high resistance) and BLDC (low resistance) motors and yes I could achieve high torque, but only at cost of too high current and overheating.
My question is both practical and theoretical: what motor or mode of operation should I choose to maximize stall torque? and what in principle can be done? Imagine I had my motor factory - how would I approach building stall torque motor?

A:

One relevant equation is the lorentz force equation. which suggests that if you want to reduce current then you need to increase the magnetic field. 
The magnetic circuit is complex, with different materials moving relative to each other. As the rotor of the motor rotates, the magnetic field within the stator changes direction and there are losses. Choosing optimum materials and geometry is the subject of many books and scientific papers. In most motor design, rotation is expected and materials and geometry that is optimum for a rotating magnetic field are used. If you have a mostly non-rotating application, you may be able to select different materials and geometry that is better.
If you don't want to design your own motors, the type of industrial motor that is most likely to be a bit optimized towards your requirements is called a direct drive motor.
The gimbals motor you linked claims to have 6Kg/cm of torque. Assuming they really mean 6 Kg*cm*9.81*m/s^2, that's about 0.6 Newton meters (Nm) of torque. A good motor that would fit the same volume could be the Kollmorgen TBM(S)-7615-X, which has about 3 Nm of stall torque, but also approximately 3 times the mass. That's a rough idea of what good design and optimization can do. About double the torque per kilogram of motor. 
Considering your ~$100 per motor budget, it depends on how motivated you are. If you are really motivated and like to build things, you could learn a bit of how motors are made and make your own motors (which are just some iron sheet cut out (by waterjet for instance), glued in a stack, wound with copper wire, and magnets glued to a rotor) for roughly your budget, assuming your robot has 3 or 6 motors.
However you may want to keep in mind that there are very few direct drive serial chain (arm or leg like) robots. The ones that exist are usually oriented horizontally so that the motors don't have to resist gravity.
Or you could do a bit of searching for motor (+ gears) that fits what you want to do best at your price range. You will probably have to make some compromises, but with a bit of calculation, you can be reasonably sure of the performance of the robot before you buy the motors. 

