Q:

Quadcopter filter and Angular rate vs angle (Arduino programming)

I wrote an Arduino program for my quadcopter that sets to power of the 4 ESC's using software.  Now I need to incorporate the gyro and add a "Complementary Filter" to stabilize it.
I am currently using a MPU 6050 for the job.
I primarily want to know what is the best approach to take for compensating the angular rate from the receiver using gyro.
Should i give the use the angle from my receiver and program my quad works to achieve that angle or should I try to control angular rate?
e.g
angular rate:-
receiver roll stick moves produces an angular rate that my PID compares with angular rate of gyro and alters values for the esc's.
e.g
angle:-
receiver roll stick moves produces an angle that my PID compares with the ANGLE of gyro+Accelerometer and then alters my ESC values

A:

Whether to control absolute angle or angular rate depends a lot on how you want your design to work.
For a PID loop, the best parameter to calculate the  error for is the parameter that you want to control.
If you were commanding direction and had a compass sensor, it would make the most sense to control absolute angle rather than rate.
In your case, it seems like the the joy stick is commanding rotation rate and the gyro is measuring rotation rate as well; so, controlling rate might make the most sense in your application.
BUT ... Think of the operator, what does HE really want to be controlled.  IMHO, the operator really wants the quadcopter to hold position.  That is the most important parameter for him.  Rotation rate is only a means to an end.  He is setting rate to achieve position.  The operator's brain is actually running separate control loop that is trying to achieve the desired direction. If a wind blast comes, what does he what held - angular position or angular rate.  IMHO, he wants it to hold angular position.  
I know position is an inferred parameter from the gyro rate and the joystick rate; but, angular position error is what I would control.
Again, the design is yours.  Only you know what is best to control.

