Q:

Does RGBDSLAM support ROS_MASTER_URI

If I enable roscore on a remote machine and suppose ROS_MASTER_URI will it do all the processing remotely?
My goal is to offload the loop closures onto a faster machine.
The longterm goal is to pick and choose what gets offloaded to ROS_MASTER_URI and what processes locally.
If you have information on any of these topics, your knowledge is greatly needed! Thanks.

Originally posted by jacksonkr_ on ROS Answers with karma: 396 on 2016-03-07
Post score: 0

A:

Yes. All ROS nodes support ROS_MASTER_URI.
ROS nodes run on whichever machine you run them on (whereever you type rosrun or roslaunch). ROS will not move processes from one machine to another for you; you have to start them where you want them.
Have a look at http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/MultipleMachines for more information.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2016-03-07
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by jacksonkr_ on 2016-03-07:
I've been tinkering quite a bit with that tutorial lately, which is what prompted my original post. It seems as though what I need to do is open up the rgbdslam src and send data to another machine where a node is running to receive and parse the data. Is that the route you would take?
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-03-07:
I haven't worked directly with rgbdslam, but it looks like is uses the openni_launch package for data capture, so the process for running the processing step on a separate machine should be as simple as running openni_launch on one machine, and rgbdslam on a different machine.
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-03-07:
The whole point of ROS is that you shouldn't have to modify the rgbdslam source code in order to have it pass ROS topic data over the network.
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-03-07:
That said, streaming full 3D point clouds over a network requires a lot of bandwidth.
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-03-07:
The rgbdslam Usage with GUI describes how to run the openni and rgbdslam nodes separately.

