Q:

What engineering problems needs to be solved to build a potato-peeling robot?

OK, let's say we have a tech request for a robotic system for peeling potatoes, and a design is as follows:

One "arm" for picking up a potato and holding it, rotating when needed.
Another "arm" for holding a knife-like something which will peel the skin from the potato.
Arm picks up a potato from first container, holds it over trash bin while peeling, then puts peeled potato in second container.
For simplicity a human rinses peeled potatoes, no need to build automatic system for it.
In first iteration even 100% spherical peeled potatoes are OK, but ideally would be good to peel as little as possible, to minimize the wastes.

Question:
I know that we're very, very far away from building such a system. Nevertheless, what are the purely technical difficulties which needs to be solved for such a robot to be built? 
EDIT
Let's assume we stick to this design and not invent something radically different, like solving the problem with chemistry by dissolving the skin with something. I know that the problem of peeling the potatoes is currently being solved by other means - mainly by applying friction and a lot of water.
This question is not about it. I am asking specifically about the problems to be solved with the two-arms setup using the humanlike approach to peeling.

A:

There are many difficulties to overcome.  As others have shown, this problem seems like it is well-suited for fixed automation rather than robotics.  I spent considerable time working on telerobotics in the 1980s, and you will be encountering many of the same issues we dealt with then.  Here are a few off the top of my head:

presenting potatoes to the arm individually (or worse, trying to pick them from a bulk collection of potatoes)
protecting from the starches, juices, dirt, and other contaminants that will be thrown around during the peeling process
peeling potatoes that have bulges
peeling potatoes that have concave and convex sections
ensuring growing eyes don't interfere with the cutting
repositioning the potato so you can peel the ends that you were holding when the main part of the potato was peeled
change in friction characteristics between gripping the skin and gripping the already-peeled section 
dealing with the size differences (both in gripping and in cutting)
controlling the force between the blade and the potato skin (you can't just program positions because of the size variability)
sizing the cutting blade:  too large and you will either miss indented sections, or remove too large of the outdented sections; too small and your process time will suffer
coordinating between the robot and the blade: how do you ensure your force is correct?  That is probably easiest to do at the blade.  But this means the position of the blade will change as it responds to varying forces, so the wrist might need to account for that.
stability of your grasp (while leaving enough open space for the blade)

