Q:

Does anyone have a URDF model or Gazebo simulation of the Wild Thumper 6WD?

-
I already had materials about it with the help of Google Search .
-
I need helpful materials about its URDF model & its Gazebo simulation because there are no materials about it in roswiki like the other famous robots that support ROS .
-
So, I asked my question because there are a lot of experienced developers in this forum who may know helpful materials ( links,books,tutorials) , sites or teams that work on this robot or similar robots to it .
any help ,please

Originally posted by Eman on ROS Answers with karma: 164 on 2014-01-31
Post score: 1

A:

Go take a look at the Sparkfun product page.
The Wild Thumper doesn't contain any electronics, so you won't find specific ROS drivers for it. Rather, you'll want to pick out a suitable motor controller, preferably one with ROS support.
It looks like there are a couple of people building ROS robots on top of the Wild Thumper. You may find their work useful: http://lmgtfy.com/?q=wild+thumper+ROS

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2014-01-31
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Eman on 2014-02-01:
Thanks for your help .  I already had  materials about it with the help of Google Search  . I need helpful materials about its URDF model & its Gazebo simulation  because there are no materials about it in roswiki like the other famous robots that support ROS . So, I asked my question because there are a lot of experienced developers in this forum who may know helpful materials ( links,books,tutorials) , sites or teams that work on this robot or  similar robots to it .
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-02-01:
If you're looking for specific materials, you should indicate that you've done some initial research and ask specifically for the things you haven't been able to find. I've updated the topic of your question to be more appropriate.
Comment by Eman on 2014-02-01:
@ahendrix Thanks a lot for your help & your update . God bless you amen . Thanks also for your note ; I will take care about that .I am sorry for disturbance ,I just thought that tags of URDF & Gazebo  will express what I want.

