Q:

Error 141: libgazebo_ros_control can not be found in Gazebo 2.0.0

When running my simulation using Gazebo 2.0.0, I get the following non-critical error:
Error [Plugin.hh:141] Failed to load plugin libgazebo_ros_control.so: 
libgazebo_ros_control.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

I don't use the ROS control part of the simulation for now, so it doesn't matter too much. However, I thought I should mention it here. I think that the current ros-hydro-gazebo-ros-control package might still be linked against Gazebo 1.9.

Originally posted by RafBerkvens on Gazebo Answers with karma: 33 on 2013-10-16
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Jose Luis Rivero on 2013-10-16:
We are finishing the work on solving the problem with gazebo-2.0.0 and ROS. Hopefully there will be some news in few hours about how to properly install and run them together. I will update the answer as soon as the official instructions are released.

A:

The error was not in your part, it was due to an unstable state of the ROS and OSRF repository. Should be fixed now.
Full instructions to install gazebo-1.9 or gazebo-2.0 (gazebo-current) were sent to the gazebo mailing list including how the integration with ROS is working.
Update 22 Oct: there is a new document about Gazebo/ROS integration which should help to fix all aspects related to gazebo and ROS.

Originally posted by Jose Luis Rivero with karma: 1485 on 2013-10-16
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by RafBerkvens on 2013-10-17:
According to those instructions, Gazebo 1.9.2 would be installed when installing ROS. I purged all gazebo, gazebo-current, ros-hydro-desktop-full, ros-hydro-gazebo-* packages from my system and did a fresh ros-hydro-desktop-full install. It automatically selects gazebo-current. The ros-hydro-gazebo-ros-control packages can still not be installed, because they look for gazebo.
Comment by Jose Luis Rivero on 2013-10-17:
I see, you probably are running raring so it is pulling the OSRF dependencies for ros-hydro-gazebo-* (which have a greater version) which brings gazebo-current to you. I see several solutions here. Probably the easiest one is to remove OSRF repo from your apt sources unless you have a different reason to keep it. I will write some instructions to solve this problem.
Comment by RafBerkvens on 2013-10-17:
Indeed, I am running raring. I should have mentioned that, my apologies. I will try your suggestion.

