Q:

install individual stack

I try to install individual stack according to guides at link ROS installation
I use this line:
sudo apt-get install ros-fuerte-slam-gmapping

I had already installed Desktop-Full Install and want to install other stacks individually. Specifically, stacks I tried to install:
robotino, robotino_kinect, simple_grasping and a few others but all failed
sudo apt-get install ros-fuerte-robotino
sudo apt-get install ros-fuerte-simple-grapsping
sudo apt-get install ros-fuerte-robotino-kinect

errors:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package ros-fuerte-robotino

What might be wrong here?? did I use the commands incorrectly??

Originally posted by roskidos on ROS Answers with karma: 110 on 2012-10-06
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Flowers on 2012-10-06:
You could try to install via svn(URL can be found in the wiki) or add the url of the source code to the apt-get install command...
Comment by roskidos on 2012-10-06:
@Flowers: I've just turned to use Ubuntu for 2 weeks and not sure what svn is. Could you tell me clearer? some code lines for example
Comment by roskidos on 2012-10-07:
I think ipso is right! I tried to install another stack with: apt-cache search ros-fuerte-pr2-simulator and it worked so smoothly
Comment by Lorenz on 2012-10-08:
apt-cache gives you information about packages. For information on svn (subversion), google will probably be helpful.
Comment by roskidos on 2012-10-12:
@Flowers: thanks for you help!! actually, I finally did it with svn for packages without debian files. simply checkout from svn to download the source files and build it with ccmake or rosmake. That's what I did

A:

To use svn, first make sure it is installed:
sudo apt-get install subversion libapache2-svn
then by:
svn checkout http://svn.openrobotino.org/robotino-ros-pkg/trunk/robotino /home/ros_workspace/robotino
you can download the package(of course you can replace /home/... by any path you want to install the package to, but make sure the path is in ROS_PACKAGE_PATH and ROS_WORKSPACE)..
afterwards you have the files in your folder and can run rosmake robotino...

Originally posted by Flowers with karma: 342 on 2012-10-08
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

