Q:

ROS Answers SE migration: zero-copy IPC

Hi !
I really like the features and design principles of ROS2, however I've already run into some bottleneck and this is the issue of huge amount of data sharing between nodes located in different unix processes, i.e. IPC.
Is there any (not so distant) future plan to implement zero-copy IPC in ROS2 ? Where by for example only the data ownership / locking tickets are published / received  through the topics, but the data does not get copied ? It could be naturally included into the design philosophy and would extremely increase the usability in data intensive applications.
Looking around on the web, there is very very few solution capable of doing this (truly zero copy IPC), one that I liked is:
https://github.com/FairRootGroup/FairMQ/
Can similar solutions be implemented in ROS2 ?
G

Originally posted by gdebrecz on ROS Answers with karma: 55 on 2019-11-26
Post score: 1

A:

You may want to become more familiar with the work the various working groups are doing in ROS 2. In particular the Real-time WG and the Security WG. From your previous questions it appears you may not be using the right keywords in your searches.
Activities of the WGs are announced and discussed in the ng-ros category on ROS Discourse.
For zero-copy in particular: ros2/ros2#785. Note also the link to the design document on the same subject.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2019-11-26
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gdebrecz on 2019-11-26:
Thanks, indeed, I'm a ROS newbie, so my questions could be ill positioned, still thanks for your support ! (On side note: currently it is not so straightforward to navigate across the various ROS/ROS2 docs. The tutorials are excellent but what is not included in those is not so easy to find.) I will check the referred documents and check the status of the functionality...from the docs I understand it is still under design and not available. Is that correct ? Is there some target implementation date ?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-11-26:\

my questions could be ill positioned

Asking questions is never a bad thing.

On side note: currently it is not so straightforward to navigate across the various ROS/ROS2 docs. The tutorials are excellent but what is not included in those is not so easy to find

True. That would seem to be on all TODO lists, but understandably gets deprioritised over actual development.

I will check the referred documents and check the status of the functionality...from the docs I understand it is still under design and not available. Is that correct ? Is there some target implementation date ?

The best place to ask this would be on the linked PR.

