Q:

Are opencv samples in diamondback debs?

I recently upgraded to diamondback release (installed on Ubuntu 10.04 from apt-get). As I recall, the samples for opencv used to be in the opencv2 package directory -- however, it appears they no longer are? Am I looking in the wrong place or is this due to the cleanup that was done to reduce the size of the .debs?

Originally posted by fergs on ROS Answers with karma: 13902 on 2011-03-04
Post score: 2

A:

It looks like this was due to the cleanup of the debs.
If you checkout and build the opencv2 package from source (with e.g. svn co https://code.ros.org/svn/ros-pkg/stacks/vision_opencv/trunk/opencv2 and then CD into that package and type make), you'll find that it does download and build the samples, but they are never moved out of the build directory. Part of the deb cleanup was to remove all build directories from packages so that the debs did not include a bunch of intermediate object files, only finished executables and libraries.
If you think that the samples should be available to deb users, filing a ticket would be the best way to get them re-included. If the samples are large, it might be best for the build system to provide a second .deb that includes just the samples that could be installed in addition to the standard vision_opencv deb file. I can't really say whether or not the samples were intentionally kept out to keep the debs small or if it was just an oversight.

Originally posted by Eric Perko with karma: 8406 on 2011-03-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by KoenBuys on 2011-03-07:
I'm also in favour of having an extra package with both OpenCV and OpenCV2 samples.
Comment by fergs on 2011-03-07:
This is basically what I thought, I wanted to confirm that I wasn't looking in the wrong place. Thanks Erik
Comment by Eric Perko on 2011-03-07:
Generally, building/editing files inside the deb-packaged version install is a poor idea. A much better solution is to overlay the package/stack you want to develop with using something like rosinstall (or by checking it out onto your ROS_PACKAGE_PATH).
Comment by Felix Endres on 2011-03-06:
"roscd opencv2" and "make" should also work for the deb-packaged version. You need root access though.

