Q:

Export audio input from local machine to remote robot?

I am currently working with a turtlebot2 and the sound drivers, specifically the jack server, are broken and I've already spent hours trying to fix them.  My local computer, however, has working sound drivers and I was wondering if there was a way to export the audio input functionality from the robot to the computer.  In other words, I want to be able to speak into a mic connected to my computer, have the audio processed by my computer, and then any nodes on the robot requiring that audio input will receive it over ssh.  I already have the ROS_MASTER_URI set to the remote robot and I am able to run rviz from my computer and control navigation of the robot.  Any ideas?
Thanks

Originally posted by pgigioli on ROS Answers with karma: 354 on 2016-03-16
Post score: 0

A:

What are you doing with the audio?
If you're doing speed recognition, you could run the ROS speech recognition node on your desktop, with the ROS_MASTER_URI set to the turtlebot, and its ROS messages could be subscribed to by any node on the turtlebot.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2016-03-16
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by pgigioli on 2016-03-16:
I am trying to run pocketsphinx so this would work.  However, when I try to run the robocup.launch from the pocketsphinx package, I get the error  "ImportError: No module named pygtk".  pygtk2 is installed on both the computer and the robot so I am not sure why it cannot find the module.
Comment by pgigioli on 2016-03-16:
The issue might be that my PYTHONPATH and my ROS_PACKAGE_PATH are not set correctly but I have no idea how I would fix this.
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-03-16:
Which version of ROS and Linux are you running? How did you install pocketsphinx, from source or through apt?
Comment by pgigioli on 2016-03-17:
Indigo and Ubuntu 14.04.  I installed pocketsphinx through apt-get and made sure it was part of the indigo distribution.
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-03-17:
Sounds like an issue with pocketsphinx. You may want to ask a new question or file a bug report. It really should work out of the box if you installed it through apt.

