Q:

NormalEstimation for 2D point cloud

Hi,
Is there a way to estimate normals  for a 2D point cloud (XY plane & Unorganized
point cloud) .  To give a small background the point cloud is formed from
Laser scan messages using laser_geometry package.
As per the PCL documentation, it try to fit a plane and estimate the normal
but in my case all the points are present in a plane. So is there a way to
find the normal lying the same 2D plane. Some thing like fitting a line and
finding the norm.
Thank you.

Originally posted by BhanuKiran.Chaluvadi on ROS Answers with karma: 241 on 2018-03-01
Post score: 1

A:

You will probably have to do the local model estimation manually because PCL doesn't have a PointXY type. It should be quite straightforward to do a least-squares line fit once you've identified the neighborhood of each point.
Someone else may be able to comment on how difficult it would be to make your own PointXY type and plug into the PCL machinery for doing normal estimation.

Originally posted by jdlangs with karma: 971 on 2018-03-01
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by tuandl on 2018-03-01:
I would like to suggest a hack by assigning a Z value to your point cloud. Z may be arbitrary or it may be the actual distance from where you place your laser scan to the ground. I know this is not the best solution but at least you could bypass writing your own PointXY type.
Comment by jdlangs on 2018-03-01:
But I think the issue is that he/she wants the 2D normals, pointing out from say a blob obstacle (correct me if I'm mistaken). If the points become 3D I'm not aware of any (built-in) method of doing a local model estimation in a single plane.
Comment by BhanuKiran.Chaluvadi on 2018-03-02:
PCL has a datatype pcl::pointXY. Currently, I am getting all the norms pointing in z - direction (0, 0, 1). Obviously the fitted plane is XY and the norm is in Z-direction. I am looking for norm that look some thing like  (x, y, 0) in the plane XY.
Comment by BhanuKiran.Chaluvadi on 2018-03-04:
@tuandi  I still don't understand your solution. By assigning the random z value will make the points 3 Dimensional. But when it comes to plane fitting for the points I am not sure how its going to work out and give a correct norm.
Comment by tuandl on 2018-03-04:
Hi, I might misuderstand your question. My idea is that if you have a normal 3D poincloud then you can you SACSegmentation to estimate your plane. Having the plane coefficients then it is simple to get the norm vector. Isn’t it what you need?

