Q:

robotino-ros-pkg installation

Hello,
I am new to Ros and Ubuntu, I am working on Festo Robotinos and I need to perform Mapping with them. For this purpose I have installed the Nootrix Ros Indigo Pre Installed Virtual Machine. (To verify the correctness of ROS, I created and successfully ran a Hello World program)
I then downloaded code from this SVN repository.
To build the checked out code completely, do I need to create separate catkin packages and manually copy paste and build? or is there a simpler more intelligent way to build the whole package in it's entirety.
When I tried to catkin_make the checked out code, it says please build from the root folder Please let me know if more details are required.Thanks in advance

Originally posted by Karthik on ROS Answers with karma: 18 on 2016-05-19
Post score: 0

A:

Typically, you have your catkin pacakges in a src folder, in another folder. Let's call this folder catkin_ws.
catkin_ws then is your root folder, so you need to call catkin_make therein.
Make sure, you have called catkin_init_workspace in your  src folder before.

EDIT
catkin_make provides out-of-source builds. So there will not be any executables in src, but in devel.
Also, checking the link you provided, I'd say that you only need to put trunk/catkin_pkg stuff in there. The rest is based on the legacy rosbuild build tool and will thus not be built with catkin_make.

Originally posted by mgruhler with karma: 12390 on 2016-05-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Karthik on 2016-05-20:
Hello, Thanks for the reply. I get what you are saying but there are no catkin_ws from the default svn architecture. I wanted to know if I needed to create a separate catkin_ws for every folder, there are 8 folders that I need to build that is why I wanted a more experienced opinion before I started
Comment by mgruhler on 2016-05-20:
No, one folder into where you put all the source packages that you want to compile.
Ideally, you just checkout the respective repository (being it svn, git or whatever) into the src folder...
Comment by Karthik on 2016-05-20:
I created a package (called catkin_WS) inside which i created src and then placed the placed the contents of robotino-ros-pkg/trunk/robotino.Upon doing catkin_make, it got compiled (created a build folder but no devel). But once I go inside the src, there are no exes generated in any folders
Comment by Karthik on 2016-05-26:
Thanks mig for the answer..It worked!

