Q:

Why don't cheap toy robotic arms move smoothly?

Why don't cheap toy robotic arms like this move smoothly?  Why can't it even move itself smoothly, (even without any load)?
In other words - what do real industrial robotic arms have, that cheap toys don't?

A:

The reason the robotic arm that you linked to does not move smoothly is that the commands given to it are not smooth. That type of actuator does not have any internal logic to generate a smooth motion from one point to another. Instead it tries it's hardest to go to the angle commanded using position control. Hobby servos use PID control and this control method will oscillate around the target point if not configured correctly.
A secondary reason is probably that a combination of friction in the joints and too-big payload are near the maximum that those little motors can handle.
A person with more robotics experience could probably make that arm move a lot more smoothly as long as they operated it within the limits of what the design allows for.
Low cost, high performance, electro-mechanical devices are possible. A portable tape player is a great example if you are old enough to have disassembled one. The mechanisms inside a printer are also a good example. The internal mechanisms of an automobile are another example. 
There is not a big enough market for toy robot arms to justify the engineering cost. The closest thing in robotics right now for low cost / high performance design is the Nao or the Baxter. 

A:

Cheap toy arms usually use cheap off the shelf servos, the kind you would find on model airplanes. Usually these servos don't have any control over speed. You give the servo the target angle and the servo tries to get to that position as fast as possible. They also don't compensate for things like load. With more expensive servos you give them both the target position and speed. There are also servos where you can play around with values (such as PID) and get information on things like load. This allows to to get smooth movement

