Q:

roscd only finding rosbuild packages

I'm on Groovy/Ubuntu 12.04. Yesterday I installed the stand alone install of Gazebo because they no longer support the older version of Gazebo that comes with ROS. It also required that I install Fuerte debians because it still has some of those dependencies. I've heard that different version of ROS can be installed along side each other so long as you only source one. But the problem is that now roscd only can find rosbuild packages - ones with manifest.xml files in them. I confirmed this with ROS, MoveIt and my own packages. Am I correct in assuming that this is because Fuerte is also installed on my computer?
According to Gazebo's website:

ROS Users: Only install Gazebo from
here. Never use the instruction on the
ros.org website.

So that is what I did.
Update:
It appears roscd stops working correctly after I run
rosrun urdf_parser check_urdf robot.urdf
[rospack] Error: stack/package urdf_parser not found
[rosrun] Couldn't find executable named check_urdf below 

Is this at all possible?

Originally posted by Dave Coleman on ROS Answers with karma: 1396 on 2013-01-15
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by KruseT on 2013-01-15:
To help find and fix this, can you report the exact steps you did in a ticket at https://github.com/ros/ros_comm/issues. Explain where you source which setup.sh (.bashrc?), and then what commands you run in the terminal until roscd misbehaves.
Comment by Dave Coleman on 2013-01-22:
The solution I found was to just not sure the Gazebo 1.3 debian, uninstalling along with it all of Gazebo's Fuerte dependencies. When I do that everything works - with the same setup.sh stuff as instructed in the catkin workspace instructions. I'm going to give Gazebo some time to adjust to Groovy.

A:

Ok, I think I've figured it out:

urdf_parser is depreciated in Groovy, but this is not documented on its wiki page

The latest version of Gazebo (1.3) still requires ros-fuerte-urdfdom, so I had this on my system as well

Somehow when I do rosrun urdf_parser check_urdf robot.urdf it confused my computer into no longer understanding catkin packages, essentially throwing it into "fuerte" mode

Originally posted by Dave Coleman with karma: 1396 on 2013-01-15
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by KruseT on 2013-01-15:
The wiki is also free for you to edit, to help other users following in your footsteps. rosrun cannot change the environment, at worst it could have some impact on the rospack cache, which would be a serious bug to fix.
Comment by Dave Coleman on 2013-01-22:
I tried to edit the wiki but there is no section for Groovy (no button at the top)
Comment by KruseT on 2013-01-23:
the buttons are generated by a special macro that you can insert yourself. Just llok at the page source for a page with the buttons.
Comment by Dave Coleman on 2013-01-25:
I added a note about the change, but I don't know enough about the new urdfdom to write the documentation. They seem to have changed packages entirely.

