Q:

How do I use xhost for this situation?

I am currently trying to make an autonomous drone using the Robot Operating System (ROS). To do this, I have installed Raspbian Lite (Jessie) on a Rasperry Pi 3 and am currently using ROS Kinetic on it. I decided to go with Openbox Window Manager and installed a terminal onto it for convenience. I can just call sudo startx. Since it is a system-wide terminal, I have also installed tmux for convenience. I am running the xserver on a particular pane and conduct my ROS work on other panes.
Now when I try to run commands that call on a GUI application from my system-wide terminal, I get the error:
QxcbConnection: Could not connect to display
Aborted

After a recommendation from this question, I decided to install xhost on my terminal emulator. After invoking xhost + in the same emulator, I get this:
access control disabled, clients can connect from any host

After which I invoke xhost which returns with:
access control disabled, clients can connect from any host
SI:localuser:root 

Therefore, within my system-wide terminal, I have set the environmental variable to 5 different values which have been listed below, and tried to run the program which calls on the $DISPLAY, but I get the same QxcbConnection: Could not connect to display error.
SI:localuser:root 
localuser:root 
localuser 
root 
SI:localuser
localhost:0

The last one was actually from the linked question. To my understanding, I am doing exactly what is listed out in this man page. What am I doing wrong?

Extra notes
Currently my remote drone isn't flying at all. I am programming on the Raspberry Pi completely as of now. So therefore, the only way, that I can get a GUI screen is to output the GUI of the window manager from a kernel virtual terminal device. I want to know how I can connect from one virtual device to the other using xhost. Should I do this over the internet?

Originally posted by sharan100 on ROS Answers with karma: 83 on 2016-12-30
Post score: 0

A:

Hi,
I'm not completely sure, what you want to do :-(
First of all I need to know proper names:
Drone + ControlPC
My ControlPC has X-Windows-Server running and I enable remote display access with: xhost +
Now my remote drone  is allowed to open a graphics display at my ControlPC.
From the ControlPC you can do now a simple ssh -C -X <drone ip address> to access the drone.
When you start now inside the ssh session a graphical application the output window will be shown at you ControlPC.
Is this what you want to do ?
Happy hacking
Cheers
Christian

Originally posted by ChriMo with karma: 476 on 2017-01-01
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by sharan100 on 2017-01-04:
Hey, sorry about my late reply. Just added some info to the question to clear a few things out.
Comment by sharan100 on 2017-01-04:
I cannot ssh into my drone, since I don't have a control PC to start with.

