Q:

Simplest method of 3D mapping a room with kinect sensor

Hello everyone, I am new to the ROS community.
I am a student at University of California, Santa Cruz and currrently working on a project which requires 3D mapping of the room. In short, my project is to create a robot which rides along a rail on the ceiling with an arm an a Kinect mounted on it. My subteam and I are responsible for mapping the room with the Kinect and controlling the arm and the cart on the ceiling.
Before joining this project, my team and I have no prior experience with ROS or computer vision. After many hours of tutorials, reading and experimenting with the point cloud library, we managed to learn how the sensor work.
Our next goal is to be able to reconstruct a 3D map of a room. After some research, there are many methods of doing this, such as, RGBDSLAM, Octomap, and OpenCV libraries. I was hoping the ROS community can guide us to picking the simplest way we can map a room with a Kinect, given we can have multiple Kinects and can access the entire room. The project is a proof of concept and we do no require much optimization for computational speed.
My first attempt at this would be Octomap, but having some trouble compiling. If anyone can lend us any guidance, that would greatly appreciated.
Thank you.

Originally posted by p.wong on ROS Answers with karma: 41 on 2013-02-18
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by dejanpan on 2013-02-18:
In my POV there isn't a one package in ROS that will just work out of the box. OctoMap, last I checked, was about the representation of the space and not 3D reconstruction. The best I have seen working though were large scale KinFu from PCL and https://github.com/ccny-ros-pkg/ccny_rgbd_tools.
Comment by rasoo on 2016-08-17:
Hi there, did you managed to create the map successfully. I am having Robotino and a kinect sensor, ubuntu 14.4 and ROS Indigo version. In my robot there is no laser scanner. Kinect publishes pointclou2 version data and Distance sensors publishesh pointcloud data. Also odeometry data is available...
Comment by rasoo on 2016-08-17:
But I am not able to create a map and having trouble. Can anyone please suggest me how can I do this.
Thanks in advance.

A:

People have already suggested rgbdslam, so I will offer my (also obviously biased) suggestion - check out ccny_rgbd. It provides tools for processing, visual odometry and mapping form RGB-D data. I just added support to export in serveral formats, including colored octomaps (see the pictures).
There are installation and usage instructions in the wiki pages.

Originally posted by Ivan Dryanovski with karma: 4954 on 2013-02-18
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by p.wong on 2013-02-19:
Thank you everyone for the replies, I really appreciate it. I managed to get rgbdslam running, but it is giving me issues. The 3d map generated looked very low in resolution, and I wasn't able to get a 360 of the room. I will try out ccny_rgbd and rgbd6dslam to see if I get better results.
Comment by p.wong on 2013-02-19:
Thank you everyone for the replies, I really appreciate it. I managed to get rgbdslam running, but it is giving me issues. The 3d map generated looked very low in resolution, and I wasn't able to get the 360 room.

