Q:

Why are industrial machines called robots?

The definition of a robot is as follow: "A robotic paradigm can be described by the relationship between the three primitives of robotics: Sense, Plan, and Act."
An example could be the famous "Kuka Robots". The Kuka robot is preprogrammed and does mainly one loop over and over again. Some of them could have measurement sensors but that is all. They do not think or plan nor do they make decisions. 
An automatic door opener, used in a building is not a robot either but according to the robotic paradigm definition they are more a robot than a Kuka machine. They actually get some data from a sensor followed by planning and acting. 
So why are Kuka machines called robots?

A:

No, that's the definition of "robotic paradigm", which is basically a class of paradigms for designing complex robots. 
The definition of "robot", in this context, is:

A robot is a mechanical or virtual artificial agent, usually an electro-mechanical machine that is guided by a computer program or electronic circuitry.

or 

A machine capable of carrying out a complex series of actions automatically.

("complex" is ambiguous here)
This Wikipedia section confirms that there is an ambiguity:

While there is no single correct definition of robot, a typical robot will have several, or possibly all, of the following characteristics.
It is an electric machine which has some ability to interact with physical objects and to be given electronic programming to do a specific task or to do a whole range of tasks or actions. It may also have some ability to perceive and absorb data on physical objects, or on its local physical environment, or to process data, or to respond to various stimuli. This is in contrast to a simple mechanical device such as a gear or a hydraulic press or any other item which has no processing ability and which does tasks through purely mechanical processes and motion.

(emphasis mine)
In the end, almost any mechanical device of some level of complexity can be classified as a robot.
Also, note that Kuka robots will have a small amount of sensors for fine-tuning (even if the bot is just picking up an object off a pedestal, it needs to correct its trajectory to align perfectly with the object)

A:

The problem is, there is no set standard definition on what a robot is. In our perspective, a robot should be like "Honda's ASIMO." Which is not the case. It is much more complex. Robots can be controlled by humans and not controlled by humans, either definition is perfectly acceptable.

