Q:

stl error loading

I'm trying to create a Robot URDF and represent it in RVIZ and I have two problems when inserting the geometry using  (when I used simple geometries the robot's representation was ok).
If the link's  is STL extension represents only some pieces of it. Also it is the same if I try whit any of the STL files of PR2 (for example head_v0.stl), only represents some lines. Why not represent STL files well? (no errors in terminal and RVIZ)
If I transform the object to Collada (.dae) exporting with the program "Blender", for example, this is represented correctly, but in white, when the object is of a different color!.
Ubuntu 11.04, ROS diamondback, stack robot_model install.
Can anyone help me with one of the two problems?
Sorry for my English, I am Spanish and I don't write/speak english very well.
The URDF robot is not the problem, but it is:
 
 
    
    
       
          -->
          
       
           
         
       
     
  
 
  
 
   
    
      
        
      
      
        
      
       
    
  
  
 

Originally posted by Rikki on ROS Answers with karma: 90 on 2011-11-01
Post score: 0

A:

If I'm understanding you correctly, when you use any STL files, you only see some lines and not the whole shape. This may be a problem with your graphics card.
If you are seeing white objects, that often means that there is no TF frame for the link. Try using a combination of JointStatePublisher and RobotStatePublisher as described in this tutorial.

Originally posted by David Lu with karma: 10932 on 2011-11-01
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by Rikki on 2011-11-04:
At the end I got it! Apparently the problem that appeared white pieces was not ROS. I needed to attach the texture to the object in blender (OGRE tool). Thank you very much David. (Collada Successful!!!)
Comment by rukie on 2019-04-05:
That tutorial should include a comment about no transfer frame and the STL appearing white. That's a damn head scratcher that was driving me nuts!

