Q:

What is the difference between a Robot and a Machine?

What is the difference between a Robot and a Machine? At what point does a machine begin to be called a robot?
Is it at a certain level of complexity? Is it when it has software etc?.
For instance: A desktop printer has mechanics, electronics and firmware but it is not considered a robot (or is it). A Roomba has the same stuff but we call it a robot. So what is the difference.
I have always believed that a robot is a robot when it takes input from it's environment and uses it to make decisions on how to affect it's environment; i.e. a robot has a feedback loop.

A:

As @Shahbaz points out this is a highly philosophical question though it does get to the core of the field of robotics. Dr. John Hollerbach begins his Intro to Robotics notes as follows:

What is a robot? In 1980, the Robot Institute of America (RIA), an industrial trade group, came up with the following definition:
"A robot is a reprogrammable multifunctional manipulator designed to move material, parts, tools, or specialized devices through variable programmed motions for the performance of a variety of tasks."
These days, this definition would be considered too restrictive, as it reflects the concentration of the RIA on robot manipulators on an assembly line. Robotics has broadened over the years in many ways: to include mobility platforms, to address the service sector as well as the manufacturing sector, and to incorporate man-machine interactions, not just autonomy, in telerobotic and virtual reality systems.

Ultimately he does not offer an alternative definition outright, that I recall. Instead he discusses the elements of a robot system which he lists as:

Mechanical Structure
Actuators
Sensors
Computer Controller

It is arguable whether the computer controller is even necessary because mechanisms can be built that respond to environmental stimuli without the explicit aid of a computer (see Dr. Robert Full's work). In AI we call such things reflex agents.
If we accept the first three elements (or all four) then our world is overrun by robots. This is a bit unsatisfying for many because we often envision the robots from SciFi. If we don't then the definition becomes arbitrary as @Ian points out because we cannot draw a distinction between two devices with the same components wherein we call one a robot (e.g. 3D printer) and another we don't (e.g. microwave) as you implicitly observe.
Regardless it is generally accepted that these are the elements of a robot. This of course gives rise to the question, did we have robots before we had the term "robot?" The answer to this question is yes (see What is the earliest concept of a robot?). However you shouldn't let this bother you, it is not uncommon for a field of research to come after the technology and/or ideas that define it.

A:

You asked two (root) questions:
Question: What is the difference between a Robot and a Machine?
and
Question: At what point does a machine begin to be called a robot?
If I may, allow me to present the following text to address the first question:
The six classical simple machines
Reference: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_machine

Lever
Wheel and axle
Pulley
Inclined plane
Wedge
Screw

Any one of these “machines” is a long way from (but may contribute to the construction of) a robot.
Addressing your second question and although fiction, Isaac Asimov presented a line of thought (reference: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Laws_of_Robotics) still discussed today:

The Three Laws of Robotics (often shortened to The Three Laws or Three Laws) are a set of rules devised by the science fiction author Isaac Asimov. The rules were introduced in his 1942 short story "Runaround", although they had been foreshadowed in a few earlier stories. The Three Laws are:

A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.
A robot must obey the orders given to it by human beings, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.
A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.

Since I’m referencing Wikipedia verses presenting any original thought, I might as well continue: (reference: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot)

A robot is a mechanical or virtual agent, usually an electro-mechanical machine that is guided by a computer program or electronic circuitry. ... Robotics is the branch of technology that deals with the design, construction, operation, and application of robots, as well as computer systems for their control, sensory feedback, and information processing.

In summary, a machine can be a robot, a robot can be a machine, a robot can be virtual.   I agree with the poster who said it would be several doctoral programs defining the difference.   :)

A:

In the industrial world, robots have a clear definition to differentiate them from other industrial machines:

Industrial robot as defined by ISO 8373:
An automatically controlled, reprogrammable, multipurpose manipulator programmable in three or more axes, which may be either fixed in place or mobile for use in industrial automation applications.
Reprogrammable: whose programmed motions or auxiliary functions may be changed without physical alterations;
Multipurpose: capable of being adapted to a different application with physical alterations;
Physical alterations: alteration of the mechanical structure or control system except for changes of programming cassettes, ROMs, etc.
Axis: direction used to specify the robot motion in a linear or rotary mode 

The important words in this definition are "reprogrammable" and "multipurpose."
For example, let's think about a welding operation that takes place in a car factory.  This operation could be done with a custom machine that lowers welding elements into place at the appropriate place on the car.  Or we could install a robot arm, put a welder on the end of the arm, and teach (program) it where to weld.  When a new model of car comes along, we can teach it the new weld points.  If we no longer need the welding operation, we can move the robot somewhere else, put a new tool on the end of the arm, and teach it to paint or to screw in a bolt.
In a larger context, people have different ideas about what is a robot and what is not.  But "multipurpose" and "reprogrammable" are still key ideas.  If you can't easily re-purpose your machine to do something completely different by reprogramming (and perhaps making minimal hardware "tool" changes), it's not a robot.

