Q:

Can material colors be applied to Collada (.dae) meshes?

Hello,
I have both STL and Collada (.dae) versions of several meshes (Dynamixel servos and brackets) and I can view both in RViz when used in the URDF file for my robot.  However, the material colors I specify for the meshes appear only when using the STL versions of the meshes.  When using the Collada (.dae) versions, all meshes appear white regardless of the material or color tags I use in the URDF file.  Does one have to specify the material or color differently when using Collada meshes?
P.S. You may ask why I don't just use the STL files and it is because on one of my machines there is a graphics driver bug that prevents the STL meshes from appearing in RViz but the Collada versions appear fine, although without the colors.
UPDATE:
I have figured out a work-around in the meantime: First I imported the TurtleBot's kinect.dae file into Blender, then I imported the AX-12 STL file, and finally, I copyied the material from the Kinect object to the AX-12 object.  Then I deleted the Kinect object and exported the AX-12 as a Collada file.  At least now I have black servos in RViz!

Originally posted by Pi Robot on ROS Answers with karma: 4046 on 2011-08-07
Post score: 1

A:

Pale white meshes usually have something to do with the ambient color. At least that is what's usually causing that look in the Ogre engine (which RViz is using). I haven't used dae with RViz, but maybe you can dig into that direction and see if the Collada file contains anything like ambient color or if there's an environment set.

Originally posted by LiMuBei with karma: 261 on 2011-08-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by LiMuBei on 2011-08-09:
If that worked, then it must be a material setting that is causing this. Compare the material settings in Blender or the resulting export and you should find something :)
Comment by Pi Robot on 2011-08-09:
Thanks for the suggestion--I'll give that a try if I can figure out how.  In the meantime, I cheated by importing the TurtleBot's kinect.dae file into Blender, then importing the AX-12 STL file, and finally, copying the material from the Kinect object to the AX-12 object.  Then I deleted the Kinect object and exported the AX-12 as a Collada file.  At least now I have black servos in RViz!

