Q:

Place for GPS antenna on autonomous vehicle

I used to think that the higher GPS antenna position the better until I read the following on GPSd FAQ:

One common error is to place the GPS or antenna as high as possible.
This will increase multipath effects due to signal bounce from the
ground or water, which can cause the GPS to mistake its position and
the time signal. The correct location for a boat GPS antenna is on the
gunwale rail or pushpit rail, close to the water and as far from the
mast as possible (to reduce signal bounce from the mast). If you're
outside or in a fixed location, put the GPS antenna as far from
buildings as possible, and on the ground.
If you're in a car, don't
put the GPS antenna on the roof, put it on the towbar or some similar
location. If you're driving in a heavily built up area, you're going
to get signal bounce off buildings and reduced accuracy. That's just
how the physics works. Note, however, that as your velocity goes up it
becomes easier for the convergence filters in your GPS to spot and
discard delayed signal, so multipath effects are proportionally less
important in fast-moving vehicles.

Does anyone has experience placing GPS antenna on a towbar of the car as suggested? Does it give reasonable effect?
My concern is that placing antenna there will not reduce an error that much, but will expose the device (antenna) to possible mechanical damage.
So, are there any better positions apart from roof and towbar?
Thanks

A:

I work on  race cars which occasionally race in built up areas such as street circuits. 
As part of the mandatory electronic systems we fit a GPS antenna to the car to allow vehicle tracking.
Some of the guidance we have for the installation is 

Fit the antenna to the upper surface of the car 
Keep the antenna within 5 degrees of horizontal
Do not place metal objects above the antenna
Guarantee the direct visibility of the sky from the antenna, with a minimum of 170ยบ cone unimpeded

So I would have expected that mounting a GPS antenna on a towbar where, potentially, half of the visibility would be obstructed by the metal structures at the rear of the vehicle would not be a good idea and would almost certainly be worse than fitting it to the roof

