Q:

How to purge out a package that I have build with catkin?

I have build a package (in ROS hydro) with catkin, now I wish to purge (delete all of it, including configuration files and executable)  it out completely, is there a catkin facility to do so ?

Originally posted by Arkapravo on ROS Answers with karma: 1108 on 2014-06-26
Post score: 1

A:

There is not anything built into any of the tools to do this. If you are doing catkin_make_isolated then you can just delete the build folder for the package in build/<package name> and the devel/install folders. Then remove the source code for that package or drop a CATKIN_IGNORE file in the source code of the that package and then rebuild. This will be relatively fast since the build folder for all of the other packages are preserved.
If you are using catkin_make, the packages are all combined, so the only way is to remove it from the workspace is to remove or disable the source code and then delete the build, devel, and/or install folders and rebuild the whole workspace.

Originally posted by William with karma: 17335 on 2014-06-26
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Arkapravo on 2014-06-26:
@William  That would be really messy ! shouldn't we have a tool like that ? or is it against catkin philosophy ?
Comment by William on 2014-06-26:
It's not against any philosophy, but there are technical problems to how it would be implemented, can you suggest a way to remove one package from a target installation when multiple have been installed there?
Comment by Arkapravo on 2014-06-26:
@William Okay - this is a shot in the bush ! since catkin_make gives a detailed list of the installation (on the terminal window) as it installs, there should be a way to keep a track of what all it installs, so that can be starting point. I am trying to draw a comparison with apt-get in Ubuntu.
Comment by William on 2014-06-26:
Just playing the devil's advocate, what happens if two packages install the same file, and then you remove one of the packages, do you leave the file they both installed?
Comment by Arkapravo on 2014-06-26:
@William dude ! I like Al Pacino, but dare not get into his shoes ! ;-)

