Q:

Unable to locate package ros-lunar-desktop-full

Using the instructions at http://wiki.ros.org/lunar/Installation/Debian titled "Debian install of ROS Lunar", I am able to successfully complete the steps up through 1.3.  On step 1.3 I had to install dirmngr, but was able to complete the step.
In step 1.4, I successfully executed sudo apt-get update.
In step 1.4, I tried to execute sudo apt-get install ros-lunar-desktop-full, but it failed with the error "Unable to locate package ros-lunar-desktop-full".
I am running Debian 9.1 Stretch on a 64 bit AMD based PC.
The command apt-cache search ros-lunar does not return anything.
I am pretty new to Linux, could somebody please help me understand what I have done wrong?
Thank you,
Randall

Originally posted by Randall Brodka on ROS Answers with karma: 16 on 2017-09-24
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-09-25:
According to status_page/ros_lunar_ds.html?q=desktop, the desktop_full pkg should be available on Debian Stretch, but only for AMD64. Can you install any other ROS pkgs? Try ros-lunar-ros-base.

A:

I did not find a solution for this problem, but I resolved it another way.
I originally installed Ubuntu on some old hardware to give ROS a try.  I experienced lots of trouble installing Ubuntu and keeping it running, so I replaced the install with Debian.  Debian installed cleanly and worked without issue.  I then tried to install ROS and ran into this problem.
Since my hardware was old and low powered, I decided to build a new computer.  I tried installing Ubuntu on the new computer, and it went smooth as silk.  I then installed ROS with no problems.
I'm now going through the tutorials.
Thanks to all who read my problem and offered suggestions!

Originally posted by Randall Brodka with karma: 16 on 2017-09-25
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-09-26:
I wouldn't say this is a solution, but as long as you're happy we're ok.

