Q:

Which is model is best for feedback control of robotic manipulators: MIMO or parallel SISO?

I'm currently designing a robotic arm with 6-DOF, and my goal is to be able to give setpoints for 3d position, velocity and orientation ($x,y,z,\dot{x},\dot{y},\dot{z},\theta,\alpha,\gamma$).
I only had feedback-control for SISO systems so far in College, so, taking the learning curve of multivariable control in consideration, should I approach this problem trying to model the system as a MIMO or multiple SISOs?
If possible please mention possible disadvantages and advantages in each strategy.

A:

Welcome to Robotics.SE! This is not exactly my area of expertise, but let me give you a few pointers.
A very common approach for controlling manipulators is to first design good joint velocity controllers, in the "multiple SISO" approach you mention. You would then use inverse kinematics to determine at each point in time what the joint velocities should be ideally to reach your desired end-effector pose.  Assuming your joint velocity control loop dynamics are fast enough, you should be able to achieve those velocities. The kinematic model of manipulators is usually obtained in terms of Denavit–Hartenberg parameters. 
Considering that it is frequently done for robots and probably is enough for your purposes, I suggest you take that approach. 
In a non-linear control class I took we saw a MIMO model for robot manipulators. I am not 100% sure about this, but I think you might want to use this if you are interested in modeling not only kinematics but also dynamics. 
The main difference is that in this scenario the joint positions and velocities all affect the inertia matrix, Coriolis and centrifugal forces and damping in a non-linear and usually not separable fashion. So you would not only have to get used to MIMO control, but would have to look into non-linear control as well.
As I said, it's not my area of expertise so if someone thinks I said any gibberish I would be gladly corrected.

