Q:

Zero-Point/Home Position/Origin of Absolute Encoder: What is the Proper Name?

I'm writing an academic paper describing the calibration of a system. Part of that system is an absolute rotary encoder measuring the angle of a joint. However, the position at which the encoder gives a reading of '0' does not correspond to an angle of zero degrees (see edit). Rather than fussing with how the encoder is mounted, I simply found the value that the encoder returns when the joint is at zero degrees and subtract that value off of future measurements. 
Is there a well-established* term to describe this point/value succinctly and, if so, what is it? 
I have to imagine that this is an extremely common task in robotic manipulators and I'm having a hard time describing the process without a name for the point/value/position that I'm calibrating for. Zero point? Home position? Origin? Encoder offset?
*By well established, I simply mean something that someone familiar with the field of robotics will understand to mean what I'm trying to describe. My primary field is medical imaging/image guidance so I have no idea what terminology is or is not commonly understood.
Edit: 'zero degrees' meaning 'zero degrees with respect to the arm'. A reading of 0 indicates, by definition, zero degrees with respect to an arbitrary position on the encoder.

A:

It really depends on what the what you are calling 'zero degrees'.
Typically 'home' refers to a well established reference point that serves as the reference point for the axis. Often the process of 'homing' reconciles the encoder measurement to this location by turning the motor until the reference location is detected then setting the encoder '0' based on that. If the encoder '0' does not correspond to 'home', this difference is often called the 'home offset'.
Note: I found the following reference for what Servotronix refers to as 'home offset'.  It seems to fit what you are describing.

The configured difference between the zero position for the application and the machine home position.

