Q:

How to control two robot arm with one master

Hello,
I have two set of Yaskawa Motoman MH5 with FS100 controller.
And now, I would like to control these two robot arm together.
Should I connect two robot arm to one controller or let them be separated ?
Please anyone give me some suggestion and tutorial.
Thanks a lot.

Originally posted by A_YIng on ROS Answers with karma: 37 on 2019-03-06
Post score: 0

A:

Do you need synchronised motion between the two MH5s?
Based on your answer to this, there will be two comparable, but slightly different answers (note: I'm assuming you want to use motoman_driver, if not, please clarify your question or ignore my answer):

If synchronised motion is not required: you don't need to connect them to the same FS100.
As to the motoman_driver setup: you run two instances of the driver in separate ROS namespaces. Each motoman_driver instance would connect separately to each FS100. You would get two FollowJointTrajectory action servers, one for each controller.

If synchronised motion is required: you should probably connect them to the same FS100 and configure them as two motion groups on the controller.
There would be a single motoman_driver instance that connects to the controller. No ROS namespaces would be necessary. You would see three FollowJointTrajectory action servers: one for each motion group and one for the combination of all joints. Sending trajectories to the per-group action server would result in async motion (ie: each manipulator is controlled individually). Sending trajectories to the "whole robot" action server would result in synchronised motion across all joints.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2019-03-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by A_YIng on 2019-03-06:
Thanks for your reply, I exactly use motoman_driver in my project.
I would like to know how to connect two robot arm to the same FS100.
Any hardware should I get ?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-03-06:
That would be something to ask your local Yaskawa branch office.
Comment by A_YIng on 2019-03-06:
OK. I have the last question. Does this motoman_driver 'Inform' be suitable for this condition ?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-03-06:
Probably. Perhaps @millete can add something here. It all depends a bit on how things are set up on the controller.

