Q:

can we efficiently use ros in ubuntu, installed in flash drive?

hello , can we efficiently use ros in ubuntu, installed in flash drive ? i installed it using virtual box but it's  slow in that so i want to find a better alternative so can we use it in flash drive installed ubuntu efficiently.

Originally posted by rishabh4011 on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2017-02-04
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by pallavbakshi on 2017-02-05:
I did the same but didn't work out that well. Ubuntun reported "ran out of virtual memory" each time I tried to install heavier packagaes - openCV, etc. Instead, create a partition and dual boot Ubuntu.
Comment by rishabh4011 on 2017-02-05:
thanks.....

A:

Yes, that is definitely possible.
Two things to keep in mind if you want to do this:

use a usb stick / flash drive with good read/write performance: some of the more recent USB3 sticks reach (sequential) read speeds of everal tens of MB/sec and have low access latencies. Both are important.
use a sufficiently large drive: depending on what you are going to do, packages can take up quite some space, even without considering some of the requirements for data storage (ie: maps, rosbags, etc). This is the same with a regular hdd/sdd, but definitely something to keep in mind.

And it might not be too much of a problem (anymore, or you just don't care), but all flash media have a limited nr of write-cycles. Running an OS (with /tmp and potentially swap space) on a flash drive is a good way to exhaust those quickly (wear levelling will help significantly though).

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2017-02-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by suforeman on 2017-02-05:
As a companion comment,when  running ROS + Ubuntu on a Raspberry Pi the SD card is not different than a USB memory stick. As long as the solid state memory storage is fast, it works well. Running with RAM based temp storage makes a significant improvement.

