Q:

ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill package not found

I have followed official guide on this link but apt cannot find Humble Hawksbill required packages.
The repository link on ros2.list is
deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg] http://packages.ros.org/ros2/ubuntu focal main

that seems correct, and the previous version was correctly installed.
Wasn't it released in May?
Even the method to build it from source on same link requires packages that aren't available on ubuntu universe and provided repository e.g. , python3-flake8-blind-except. Latest time that I have installed ROS building the sources was with ROS 1 Noetic, I haven't tried the previous method since the build procedure seems changed and I have preferred ask here before further attempts.
(Also, what about using a decent build automation tool to have consistent built packages release with various platforms especially Debian, OpenWRT and arm64 CPUs that are very popular for SBC based robots?)
OS: Kubuntu Focal Fossa 64 bit

Originally posted by SMH17 on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2022-06-10
Post score: 0

A:

You cannot install Humble on (K)Ubuntu Focal. Humble only gets binary packages (ie: .debs) on Ubuntu Jammy.
This is stated on the page you linked:

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2022-06-10
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by SMH17 on 2022-06-10:
Ok, thanks. I haven't paid much attention to "Jammy" because I wouldn't have expected a so limited distribution on release, assuming that at least it was available for most widespread release of Ubuntu family, considering that has been released only for Ubuntu, and 22.04 Jammy Jellyfish release is very recent.
Comment by Rick_O on 2022-08-02:
This is a bit confusing. Here : link text is stated as an alternative to build from source for the Tier 3: Ubuntu Linux - Focal (20.04) 64-bit.
If this is not possible, then the Ubuntu(Source) alternative is misleading.
Please correct me if I am wrong.

