Q:

How to use tf.TransformBroadcaster() with ROSJava?

Hi,
I am trying to develop basic calculus to use SLAM featues with my robot using ROSJava. I was reading wiki about TF and I saw a code from other development and I saw that it is necessary to use TF.
In the example I saw that script use: tf.TransformBroadcaster(). In ROSJava, I saw a class Transform and I saw a method: transformQuaternion(Quaternion quaternion) and I not sure if this is the way to use TF in ROSJava in the right way to use later to do SLAM.
Many thanks in advance

Originally posted by Juan Antonio Breña Moral on ROS Answers with karma: 274 on 2012-01-21
Post score: 1

A:

As far as I know, TF has not been ported yet to the native implementation of rosjava, but the transformBroadcaster should be pretty easy to implement because it doesn't need any fancy transform calculations and bookkeeping to support time traveling. It just publishes a message. All you need to do is creating a publisher to the /tf topic with type tf/tfMessage and publish the transform you want to broadcast by hand.
If you need more features, e.g. requesting the transform between two frames, you can think about porting the old TF implementation for the JNI based rosjava. You can find it here: http://code.in.tum.de/indefero/index.php//p/client-rosjava/source/tree/master/tfjava.

Originally posted by Lorenz with karma: 22731 on 2012-01-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by damonkohler on 2012-01-25:
Please note that there are some TF operations available in rosjava_geometry.
Comment by Shanker on 2012-01-25:
I stumbled across http://code.google.com/p/rosjava-tf/ . Don't know if it is useful, but might save you some time. I am at a similar point myself.
Comment by Lorenz on 2012-01-24:
Such a port would be awesome. Please let me know when you have it working.
Comment by Juan Antonio Breña Moral on 2012-01-24:
Hi Lorent, I think that I will port old TF to new ROSJava. To use Navigation Stack it is necessary so, I will port. Many thanks. I will inform about my progress, this week. Cheers

