Q:

Exporting .urdf from SolidWorks

Good morning everyone,
I've been trying to export a model from SolidWorks to MoveIt, but I haven't been successful. I have an industrial arm in an assembly file and was trying to use the sw_urdf_exporter.
I followed all the steps described here: exporting assembly to URDF, but it hasn't worked correctly so far. My issue is that, when I export the file with the joints corrdinate systems all in the origin of the base_link, the arm is imported correctly in MoveIt, but the parts, instead of rotating in their place, rotate around the whole robot body. On the other side, when I put the coordinate systems in the right place, in the joint, they rotate around the right point, but are expanded as if two times as far as they should be from the origin of base_link.
Has anyone tryed this or has any idea of what might be the problem?
In this dropbox folder I have 2 videos of what is happening:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/slw1mz05lo919l5/d5RlhA1t6z
Feel free to ask any questions you might have!
Thank you,
Tiago Pimentel

Originally posted by t.pimentel on ROS Answers with karma: 385 on 2013-06-12
Post score: 2

A:

Good morning everyone,
I found a fix to the problem, but don't know if it's the right way to do it. I decided to just use the offset in each link to position all the meshes in the right position. By setting their visual and collision origins to the sum of all the joint's (its joint + its parent's joints) origins values times -1 (because the position of 1 joint builds upon the others before) I was able to put them in the right spot.
Does anyone here knows if that can cause a problem with the inertial component, should I put the same offset there? And does anyone know if there can be any future issues caused by this fix?
Thank you for the help,
Tiago Pimentel

Originally posted by t.pimentel with karma: 385 on 2013-06-13
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2013-11-14:
I can't comment on any potential issues, but have you checked the ROS Industrial support for the SIA20D? The motoman_config package seems to contain a working URDF for your manipulator.

