Q:

ros installation on panda board

i am new to Ros .i have installed Ros on Ubuntu on panda board now i am going to use Ros .my project is to have a two wheel self balancing robot with the help of Ros is it achievable as i am new to this forum and have no idea about Ros still a beginner so this question will look  like a childish question kindly clear me about Ros?? how to start with Ros

Originally posted by danish on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2012-02-09
Post score: 0

A:

I would suggest you separate the motor control, encoders, and accelerometer (and various other sensors) out into a separate microcontroller.  As mentioned above, the Linux kernel will not handle realtime very well by default.  I suggest using an arduino and the avr_bridge package to get information to and from ros.  There should be examples of using an arduino as a motor control interface with ros odometry, and similarly plenty of arduino based balancing robots.  Between the two examples, you could manage a balancing robot with ros odometry.
The segway route is the "easy way out" if you want to utilize the higher level ros software such as mapping, navigation, etc without messing with the PID and feedback loops of doing a balancing robot implementation yourself... the problem is that the segway bases are quite expensive.
You should be able to mesh multiple arduino examples together to make a balancing robot, then add ros control via the pandaboard.
However you approach it, I would suggest for the ROS portion that you isolate the balancing section of the robot into its own function and make the robot work with ROS with standard motor control (using outriggers to keep it balanced).  Treat them as separate projects until you get far enough along in both to meld them together.

Originally posted by evanmj with karma: 250 on 2012-02-24
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by danish on 2012-02-26:
your suggestion is very encouraging for me thanks for this informative comment.

