Q:

Unable to use xml formatted launch files with ROS2 eloquent

I am trying to get a launch file in the xml format to launch using ros2 launch launch_files launch_file.xml however when I do so I receive the error [ERROR] [launch]: Caught exception in launch (see debug for traceback): The launch file may have a syntax error, or its format is unknown. I have modeled the launch file off of the ones found in the demo_examples_cpp package, using the exact same code as the talker.listener.launch.xml
 example. I have checked to make sure the file ended up in the share installation folder with my .launch.py files. The .launch.py files work fine. I have also tried passing in the entire path to the ros2 launch command without luck. Any guidance toward getting the XML launch files to work would be greatly appreciated.

Originally posted by mequi on ROS Answers with karma: 111 on 2020-04-11
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-04-12:
@mequi: please always use permalinks when linking to artefacts on Github/Bitbucket/etc. Otherwise we run the risk of your links going stale after some time, reducing the value of your question (and any potential answer).
I've replaced the link to talker.listener.launch.xml with a permalink, but please keep it mind next time.
Comment by Bastien Taillandier on 2020-04-22:
Uppp ! I get the same problem, I don't suceed to use xml launch file with ros2 eloquent ....

A:

I had the same exact problem. It seems that no package in the ros2 variants depends on launch_xml or launch_yaml (ros2launch, the only launch related dependency, does not for some reason) so they are not installed with the debian packages. You have to install it manually
sudo apt install ros-eloquent-launch-xml
sudo apt install ros-eloquent-launch-yaml

This worked for me
edit: They fixed it in the github repo, so you will no longer need to separately need to install extra packages in the next ROS2 version or next eloquent patch.
edit2: As of 29 October 2020, this was fixed in foxy, but you still need to do the above for eloquent

Originally posted by Thodoris Tyrovouzis with karma: 76 on 2020-05-03
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

