Q:

Installing Gazebo package in simulator_gazebo ROS stack on OSX Lion

I am having a hard time getting the gazebo package in the simulator_gazebo stack to compile on Lion.
I can get all the ROS package dependencies installed, but when compiling Gazebo itself, I get a compilation error that looks like this:

-- BUILD WARNINGS
--    CEGUI not found, opengl GUI will be disabled.
--    Player not found, gazebo plugin for player will not be built.
-- END BUILD WARNINGS
-- BUILD ERRORS: These must be resolved before compiling.
--    Missing: tinyxml
--    Missing: TBB - Threading Building Blocks
-- END BUILD ERRORS
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:193 (message):
Errors encountered in build.
-- Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!
make[1]: *** [installed] Error 1
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:29 (message):
Build of Gazebo failed
-- Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!

I have installed both of the packages tinyxml and tbb from Homebrew, but the install script seems to be unable to find them.
Any help is appreciated.

Originally posted by zlittlefield on Gazebo Answers with karma: 1 on 2012-10-09
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by zlittlefield on 2012-10-18:
While waiting for the question to be posted, I figured out the answer to this question.  pkg-config couldn't find the library files because there were no .pc files created to find these libraries. Manually creating them solved this issue.
Comment by SL Remy on 2012-10-18:
So you got gazebo installed?
Comment by zlittlefield on 2012-10-21:
No, other problems have arisen since then. I haven't had a chance to continue trying to install it yet.

A:

Quoting zlittelfield's comment as an answer:
While waiting for the question to be posted, I figured out the answer to this question. pkg-config couldn't find the library files because there were no .pc files created to find these libraries. Manually creating them solved this issue.

Originally posted by gerkey with karma: 1414 on 2013-01-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Mohsen Hk on 2013-03-10:
how create manually?
Comment by Andrew Hundt on 2014-03-24:
I second the question.

