Q:

Problem with kinect

Hello, I hope you can help me.I have a problem with kinect. I open a terminal and write "roscore" then I open a new terminal for lunch my kinect. I open a new terminal for a make and after I open a new terminal for run my ros node. The first time I always get my results, but if I want to repeat the acquisition kinect, because I want to redo the run of the node (because I made the changes), the kinect disconnects. When I try to restart it no longer connects and I have to restart the PC to make it work.
I use ros electric in ubuntu 11.10.
This is the message when the kinect disconnects: [camera_nodelet_manager-1] process has died [pid 2623, exit code -6].

Originally posted by Giu on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2012-05-07
Post score: 0

A:

With the information provided, I'm not entirely sure what the problem is.  However, here are a couple of tips for debugging.  First you don't need a separate roscore; using roslaunch on openni.launch will automatically start a core (this will just save you a step).
You very likely do not have to restart your entire computer if the openni.launch process does crash.  Often, I have found that reloading the udev service is enough to get the Kinect restarted.  So if openni.launch is failing to start the Kinect, or failing to publish any data, try unplugging the Kinect and running the command
sudo service udev reload

Then try again.
Launching the openni.launch with debugging turned on will allow you to get a backtrace of the error.  This could possibly lead to the cause of your problem.  Run
roslaunch openni_launch openni.launch debug:=true

a separate xterm window running gdb will pop up.  In that window type run, and the node will start running.  Then if the node crashes, you can type bt in the gdb window to generate a backtrace of the error.

Originally posted by jarvisschultz with karma: 9031 on 2013-03-12
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by jarvisschultz on 2013-03-12:
Wow... I did not realize how old the question was.  Maybe @Giu still cares?
Comment by Oier on 2013-03-12:
Neither did I, I just was looking at unanswered questions.

