Q:

Mobile robot identification

The problem: line follower robots - non linear systems - use linear PID regulation algorithm in order to bring error to zero. However, using linear regulator is not the best way to drive non linear system.
There is something like global linearization of non linear systems - an algorithm that can bring regulation error to zero. In order to use it, one has to know kinematics of robot: Coriolis, inertion, gravity and friction matrixes. Those were once measured in EDDA manipulator and are now used in science, and that is how I learned about global linearization.
The question: I'd like to identify kinematical dynamical parameters of my line follower robot. I already have kinematical model, since it is simple (2,0) platform. Has anyone got information about good sources on physical parameters identification of mobile robot like this?

A:

"using linear regulator is not the best way to drive non linear
  system"

All systems are non-linear to some extend; for example, we will always encounter actuator saturation in practical systems.  And all practical controllers (e.g., PID controllers) are implemented in such a way as to handle these non-linearities, e.g., preventing integrator windup due to actuator saturation. Thus, controllers for non-linear systems are usually designed to be non-linear when the errors are large, and linear  if the errors are small.
As to your question: 

"I'd like to identify kinematical parameters of my line follower
  robot. Has anyone got information about good sources on identification
  of mobile robot like this?"

Why don't you start off with an analytical model of the robot which describes the dynamics and kinematics. Kinematics (rotational and translational position due to velocity, due to acceleration,...) can be modelled perfectly.  If you know which forces and moments the actuators supply, then you only need to know masses, inertias and friction to be able to model the dynamics. These can then be measured or identified.
It is much easier to identify the parameters of a model than to identify the structure of a model... :-)

