Q:

Unable to locate the package: handle_detector

Hi all,
I am not able to locate the package handle_detector in the repositories for ros indigo, although in the Ros Wiki say that it sould there be for indigo.
Morevoer, If I try to compile it from the source I get this error:
CMake Error at handle_detector/CMakeLists.txt:21 (find_package):
  By not providing "FindEigen.cmake" in CMAKE_MODULE_PATH this project has
  asked CMake to find a package configuration file provided by "Eigen", but
  CMake did not find one.

  Could not find a package configuration file provided by "Eigen" with any of
  the following names:

    EigenConfig.cmake
    eigen-config.cmake

  Add the installation prefix of "Eigen" to CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH or set
  "Eigen_DIR" to a directory containing one of the above files.  If "Eigen"
  provides a separate development package or SDK, be sure it has been
  installed.

I don't have high knowledge of c++ and ros. I understand that it doesn't find the package Eigen, but I have installed all the ros packages of Eigen:
sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-eigen-*
And moreover I also have the Eigen library installied in my pc.
I Have no idea how to fix the problem. I just want to use that package and whatever method (by repository or by source) is ok for me.
Thanks in advance!

Originally posted by Caba on ROS Answers with karma: 113 on 2015-07-07
Post score: 0

A:

When linking to Eigen, the problem is that Eigen does not provide a proper CMake module in order to find the location of the libraries, so that  EigenConfig.cmake or eigen-config.cmake cannot be found.
Take a look at this answer: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/30018447/using-eigen-library-in-ros-indigo
Additionally, I do not know how it works, but not all packages in the wiki can be found through apt-get, it is common that you have to use some of them from source.

Originally posted by Javier V. Gómez with karma: 1305 on 2015-07-07
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Caba on 2015-07-08:
Thanks, that resolved the problem :)
Moreover, If I only change in the CMakeLists.txt the Eigen with Eigen3 is working without any further changes.

