Q:

Quadcopter Charging

Our thesis is about Multicopter using two batteries wherein the first battery is used and when the power goes out, a switch is placed use to charge the first battery while the second battery is powering the multicopter, the process repeats again and again until all the power of the battery is drained. Is the process possible to achieved?
Edit 1:
Just to clear everything up again. The thesis is about a Quadcopter that uses two batteries as its power source. These two batteries are attached to a "switching circuit system" that will allow one battery to be drained then the quadcopter will be transferred to the other battery. The solar panels serve as the "charger" of whatever battery is in its standby mode (the discharged battery). So while one battery is being used by the quadcopter, one will be connected to a solar panel which will be charging that battery. Once the other battery is drained, the quadcopter will switch to the charged battery. This will continue to go on until both batteries are drained. Is this achievable?

A:

The best way to manage power redundancy for autonomous systems is a really interesting topic. 
There are two classes of power needed. Flight and processing. Often the power required for flight is much higher than what's needed for processing.
Issue number 1 is that as soon as you introduce redundancy (2 batteries instead of 1) you incur a penalty of extra volume and weight. 1 big battery will hold more energy than two batteries that fill the same mass and volume.
Issue number 2 is that every stage of electronics you add, every DC-DC converter, every MOSFET, will waste some of your power to heat. So it's very possible that the losses from the extra electronics will be too high.
So you have to have a really good reason for using more than one battery. Especially in a flight system where every gram affects performance.
One reason is to keep the processing system alive to avoid the time cost of startup and shutdown, or provide emergency recovery communictations. In this case, using a big battery for flight and a small battery for processing might be advantagous. Make the small battery only just big enough for the shutdown/emergency time and power the processor with the big battery during normal operations.
Another reason would be to allow the vehicle to do an autonomous mechanical change of batteries. Two batteries of the same size makes it cheaper to build and operate a system like this(assuming lots of aircraft and lots of batteries).
Based on my current understanding of your system, which is a battery+solar panel power system with the goal of maximizing a single flight (rather than landing and charging on the ground), it's possible to do what you want to do but more efficient to put the energy from the solar panels directly into the motors and use one big battery. 

