Q:

ROS for the internet of things

Hello everyone! I'm new to ROS and I have a question.
I need to have data that mimic a typical home owner interactions with his smart gadgets at home. So I need to have lots of sensors installed in this virtual environment (e.g. on doors or light bulbs to detect when the owner open and close them, and maybe other sensors to detect temperature, humidity, etc..) and I want to manually control something to act like the home owner while he interacts with these smart gadgets and most importantly, I want to be able to log the data generated from these gadgets.
In a nutshell, a testbed for a typical home usage in the so called "Internet of Things" paradigm.
Can I build something like this using ROS or one of its tools? and how hard it will be?﻿

Originally posted by nashamri on ROS Answers with karma: 33 on 2014-11-28
Post score: 3

A:

This would definitely be possible with ROS, and it would make a great, easy prototype, but ROS probably isn't suitable for a commercial IoT product.
ROS has some great features that will make prototyping easy:

Python API for quick scripts
Anonymous pub/sub and remapping for easy re-use of nodes
Existing packages like rosserial for hardware integration

But ROS also has some drawbacks that make it unsuitable for commercial deployment:

Requires a full Linux OS (Ubuntu)
Lots of dependencies; requires several GB of disk space to install.
Centralized ROS master needed for connection setup
Does not handle lossy or intermittent network connections well

I'm not familiar with the IoT frameworks, but one of them might be more suitable.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2014-11-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 6

Original comments
Comment by nashamri on 2014-11-28:
Thanks ahendrix,
I'm not interested in any sort of commercial deployment, it's only for research purposes.
Also I don't care about the network reliability and it's OK to have the central master node. I just want to have a virtual smart home with lots of sensors to log the user interactions with them
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-11-29:
Great! I just wanted to make sure that you and future users are aware of the limitations that ROS may have in this sort of setting.

