Q:

Information about Turtlebot2

I'll be teaching a robotics course this spring using ROS and Turtlebots as the platform.  I currently have several of the original Turtlebots and intend to order several more in the near future.  I noticed today that the Turtlebot2 is now available for purchase.  I'm trying to determine which version I should buy, and I'm having trouble finding very much information about the new release.  I'm hoping that someone in the know can help me answer a few questions, or point me in the right direction.
-Is there currently support for the new Turtlebot in Fuerte?
-To what degree will code for the new Turtlebot be backward compatible with the old Turtlebot.  Will the existing Turtlebot node still work with the new base? Or will there be a new stack?
-It looks like the new Turtlebot is designed to provide power to a laptop.  What laptop(s) will be supported? I've been looking at the Acer Aspire One AO756-4854.
-Is the low-level interface to the Kobuki base compatible with the interface to the Create?  Is there a published specification for the Kobuki interface?

Originally posted by nsprague on ROS Answers with karma: 228 on 2012-10-25
Post score: 1

A:

I will try to answer your questions in order:

Is there currently support for the new Turtlebot in Fuerte?
Currently, yes, and we will build Fuerte images for the new TurtleBot.

To what degree will code for the new Turtlebot be backward compatible with the old Turtlebot. Will the existing Turtlebot node still work with the new base? Or will there be a new stack?
We are attempting to maintain the code as close to the current structure as possible. There will definitely be another package for communication with the drive base. Code which is written for an old TurtleBot should work with a new one (unless you're using messages like turtlebot_node/sensor_state). Code which is written for a new one should also work with an old one (unless you're using Kobuki-specific messages or require the better sensors you will get with the new drive base)

It looks like the new Turtlebot is designed to provide power to a laptop. What laptop(s) will be supported? I've been looking at the Acer Aspire One AO756-4854.
Laptops are a constant source of frustration for us, as manufacturers are now EOLing their laptops on a 6 month rotation and they never work out of the box with Linux. We are currently shipping the Asus 1025C with our TurtleBots.

Is the low-level interface to the Kobuki base compatible with the interface to the Create? Is there a published specification for the Kobuki interface?
No, it is not compatible on a driver level. There is no formal published spec yet.

Originally posted by Ryan with karma: 3248 on 2012-10-25
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by dornhege on 2012-10-25:
Can you say what voltage the laptop power connection is and how much power it provides?
Comment by Ryan on 2012-10-25:
The power connection is 19 V and will provide 2 A to the netbook when the robot is docked. I believe the current plan is to provide no power on this connector to the netbook when the robot isn't docked (to avoid draining the battery), but I'll have to confirm that

