Q:

More powerful alternatives to Lego Mindstorm NXT 2.0?

I'm interested to build Robot from my imagination, and I was looking to purchase a robotic kit.
I find the Lego Mindstorm NXT 2.0 really interesting for many reasons : You can plug whatever brick you want, and you can develop in the language you want.
I am a developer, and the use of this kind of robotic would be interaction mostly (not moving, so the servo motors are useless to me, at least now).
But regarding the spec of the NXT main component, I feel it's a bit low (proc, ram & rom).
That made me wonder if any of you know something similar (where I can plug whatever I want on it, and most importantly, program the reaction), but with a more powerful hardware ?
Price will also be a limitation : I like the NXT also because I can build what I want under 300 USD. I don't want to spend 10k USD on my first kit, but I would appreciate buying a better piece of robotic if the price isn't too distant from the NXT's.
Do you have some alternatives to check out ?
Thanks for your help !  :)

A:

I do not think you will find ANY kit better than the NXT 2.0.  You may find components, and be able to piece together your own Robot, but there is nothing available as a kit that I know of in that price range (which BTW is $230 at walmart at the moment, pretty good deal). I also do not understand how you are planning to do very much without using servos. A robot that has no movement at all is pretty boring, and more like a refrigerator than a robot. The use of servos is IMHO an important part of robotics.
Exactly what is "a more powerful "AI"'? As a developer, I would not have expected that type of question. Are you sure an NXT does not have enough AI for your current robotic experience? Personally, short of some neural network stuff, I have never exceeded capacity with an NXT, and I was able to size that down and make it workable. Learning to be efficient is part process.
The NXT also open up great opportunities in mechanical design as well as pure robotics. There is plenty to keep anyone busy for quite a while, until college at least, then you step up to $1/2million dollar PR2s that someone else paid for.

A:

but with a more powerful "AI" ?

Firstly, no robotics kit has any AI built in. AI needs to be tailor-made for the situation, it's not like you import AI and everything just... works. You need to program your own AI every time you want a smart bot. That being said, some  AI-related things like image processing can be found prepackaged for use.

Regarding kits, I don't know of there's any such kit that's better than the NXT. For "serious robotics", such kits will always prove inadequate as they're restrictive in many ways. What I suggest is to start using an Arduino or Raspberry Pi. A Raspberry Pi fits your criteria more--it has a good amount of RAM, and runs Linux--so it's easier to work with (it's pretty much like programming a normal application, except you don't need to create a GUI for the app). It's extremely cheap, costs $25-$35. You can use whatever language you want here, as long as you have something to make the language run on Linux (gcc/python/java--generally these are all built in, though you can easily find APT packages for stuff like ruby). In addition, it's easy to find packages for tasks like image processing/etc. It also has 512MB of RAM, which is good enough unless you want to play Warcraft on it. You do have to get familiar with Linux to use this, though.
The Arduino's another good (possibly better) option. You can program it in C/C++/Java (and some other languages if you use some third party tools). It is low on RAM, though--you sometimes need to chain two Arduinos in a master-slave configuration to get stuff done. 
The only issue is, you need to make your own sensors for the Raspberry Pi (sensors for the Arduino exist and some can be found here. In addition, there is some examples using NXT equipment here.) Generally not that hard (for example, a light/dark sensor can be made with a photodiode and resistor), though this is a big shift from the NXT (which was plug-and-play). You'll have to get your own servos and learn how they are controlled, and lots of other little things. You will have to get your hands dirty with soldering control boards/etc, and you will have to know a decent amount of electronics.
Otherwise you can just continue using the NXT, there are all sorts of premade sensors out there (though custom making your own sensor isn't that easy). 

