Q:

What is the correct name for "servo brackets"?

I refer to these types of brackets as servo brackets, or robot brackets:

I know that the two specific brackets, shown above, are known as a short-U (some vendors refer to them as "C", en lieu of "U") and a multi-function bracket, respectively, and that there are other types available, namely:

Long U bracket
Oblique U bracket
i bracket
L bracket
etc.

However, I am sure that there is a correct name for these types of bracket (or this range of bracket, if you will), rather than just servo brackets - either a generic name or a brand name. I have seen the term once before, on a random web page, but the name escapes me. They are either named after their creator, or, if I recall correctly, the institution where they were developed.
Does anyone have a definitive answer, preferably with a citation or web reference, or a little historical background?

A:

After some extensive searching, I believe that they are called Servo Erector Set (SES) brackets, from Lynxmotion, although the article itself also uses the term servo brackets.

About the Servo Erector Set
Think of the Lynxmotion series of servo
  brackets as an Erector Set for servos. These components are extremely
  versatile, making virtually any mechanical arrangement possible. It's
  now possible to build custom robots to your specifications! The
  brackets are available in black anodized aluminum. The ball bearings
  provide for precise low friction movement. The tubing, hubs and hub
  connectors are precision fit and really expand what is possible to
  build. They are made in the USA from high quality aluminum alloy. We
  also have a series of laser cut Lexan chassis, torso, and electronics
  carriers that truly complete the set. 
If you want to build a variety of different robots using the SES
  system, consider the complete SES V1.1 Construction Kit which contains
  everything you need to get started.

The article also refers to them as Hitec servo brackets. 

Hitec Servo Brackets
Our selection of standard brackets can use most standard size Hitec
  analog or digital servos. The HS-3xx, 4xx, 5xx, 6xx, 54xx, 56xx, and
  59xx servos are verified to fit. Note that servos from other
  manufacturers are not guaranteed (nor likely) to work...

So, the term SES may only be referring to the kit of various Hitec servo brackets.
The first place that I saw the term SES, was on the page, WALKER8 – An Octopod Project, where it is mentioned in the comment:

I decided to go with the SES route

This may not be the most definitive answer, but it is the best that I could come up with. Maybe the answer is simply [Hitec] servo brackets, as the brackets were first designed to fit Hitec servos, and their derivatives. 
Whether or not the brackets where designed by Hitec themselves, or some other third party is not clear.
If someone else knows, or has an idea of, a better answer, please post it.

