Q:

Denavit-Hartenberg convention in practice

How are the coordinate frames and D-H parameters determined in industry? Does one use the CAD drawing of the arm or physically take measurements of the actual arm?

A:

The DH parameters need to be as accurate as possible, and that means using dimensions from CAD. However, sometimes this is still not accurate enough.  (The robot might not match the CAD exactly for various reasons.)  In this case, we turn to kinematic calibration.  
Put simply, kinematic calibration is taking measurements of the arm and adjusting the DH parameters accordingly.  Although, this must be done in a very controlled and precise manner.  (We don't just use a tape measure on the arm for example).  
This can take various forms.  For example if you have a very precise jig, you can make the arm touch known points on the jig.  Or if you have a high-DOF arm you can fix the end-effector and move the rest of the joints through the arm's null space.  Or you can simply instruct the arm to move to various configurations and measure the end-effector pose with high precision external sensors.  Then you typically have a large minimization problem to solve.  You need to back out new DH parameters that are most likely to give you the measurements you have seen. 
To better understand kinematic calibration, the clearest source of information I could find on the subject is in the book "Robotics: Modelling, Planning and Control" by Bruno Siciliano, Lorenzo Sciavicco, Luigi Villani, Giuseppe Oriolo, chapter 2.11.  Which requires a description of the arm in DH parameters, multiplying out the kinematics equation, partial differentiation w.r.t. each DH parameter, then a least-squares fit (with the left pseudo-inverse), then iterate.  
But I was never able to get this technique to work for me.  What did work was using PoE (Product of Exponentials).  In PoE, the kinematic parameters of the model vary smoothly with changes in joint axes and can handle kinematic singularities naturally. I followed this paper and was successful in kinematically calibrating my 7 DoF arm:
I. Chen, G. Yang, C. Tan, and S. Yeo, “Local POE model for robot kinematic calibration,” Mech. Mach. Theory, vol. 36, no. 11/12, pp. 1215– 1239, 2001.

