Q:

What is the difference between path planning and motion planning?

What are the main differences between motion planning and path planning?
Imagine that the objective of the algorithm is to find a path between the humanoid soccer playing robot and the ball which should be as short as possible and yet satisfying the specified safety in the path in terms of the distance from the obstacles. 
Which is the better terminology? motion planning or path planning?

A:

Compare the following two images:

The path planning is somewhat trivial. There's only one path: the rope. The motion planning on the other hand is not that easy.
In a maze the path planning is hard and motion planning is easy:

Of course both planning tasks can be easy or hard at the same time or anything in between.
They are linked to one another in that

the planned motion should follow the path or follow that path closely
the current motion can influence the path planning. If driving in one direction at a high speed, a sudden change in velocity might not be the best idea even if that would be necessary to get on the shortest path. Or the starting pose of a nonholonomic robot, which influences the possible path significantly.

They are separate in that 

motion is related to time (change of position over time), but the path itself is not. Even if the motion goes along the path exactly it could have various trajectories for velocity and/or acceleration. Your robot could stop for example to let another robot cross its path, which is a change in motion but not the path itself.
motion can be influenced by other things, like wind for example

Neither list is exhaustive.

Which the terms is better than ? motion planning or path planning ?

There's no "better" term. It depends on what you are describing.
For anything that involves moving a physical robot, I'd use motion planning.
How do I get this thing from here to there? could be a question you are answering.
If the robot itself is abstracted away and you are only planning a path of a point through a maze I'd use path planning. What's the shortest path from point A to B? could be an example question.
But again, both planning tasks are connected. If you ask What's the shortest possible path? then certainly the geometry and motion capabilities of the robot determine what's possible. You do both motion and path planning at the same time. Using either term should be fine here.
This holds true for the other cases as well. Both terms can be used interchangeably because the definition of motion and path aren't very clear. (a path implies that a motion happens along it and a motion necessarily happens along a path). You are usually doing both to some degree anyway.

A:

What's the difference between turn-by-turn GPS and driving a car? 
GPS is path planning: high-level commands like, "turn right in 1 mile."
Driving is motion planning, which means following a route established by path planning while at the same time taking care of the minutia: interfacing with the car, staying in lane, watching for pedestrians, obeying traffic law, merging with other vehicles, changing lanes, etc. 

A:

There isn't really a difference. "Path planning" might be used more often to simply describe the problem of finding a desired path from one state (or sub-set of states) to another. Whereas "motion planning" might be used to describe the same problem but more specifically the actual commanded motions that the robot uses to track the series of desired states along the path.
For example, path planning would produce a desired trajectory for a rocket, whereas motion planning would produce the series of commands to the engines, fins, etc.
So for the problem you mention, you need to plan a path for the robot to follow. This then needs to be expanded into trajectories for all of the robot's leg and arm joints. Then you have to convert these trajectories into raw commands to the motors (or whatever control input the robot accepts).

