Q:

Will RoS work over I2C , without serial? ie; arduino to arduino communication without a PC?

Will RoS work over I2C , without serial? ie; arduino to arduino communication without a PC?
I have seen examples and tutorials on how RoS can be used in arduino. But all of them explains
how to get an arduino communicate to a PC over serial protocol.
I am working on a robotic project where arduino to arduino communication is required. Will I be able to imlement
two ROS nodes based on I2C as underlying channel ?
Or any other ideas to get the same goal ?

Edit: Thanks William for the quick answer.
Eventhough, ROS Serial ( http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial )  examples are shown for communication from arduino to PC , I believe arduino to arduino serial will also work for ROSserial.
Any pointers how I can implement a new underlying protocol for ROS node to node communication.
There should be "downward"  interfaces for doing this.  Has any one tried this?

Originally posted by Ajan on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2015-11-18
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Mehdi. on 2015-11-18:
Maybe using a raspberry Pi with ROS as master for both arduino boards?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-11-18:
@Ajan: please don't post answers to post comments, or updates to your question. Please use the edit button/link for that. I've merged your update into your question.
Comment by Ajan on 2015-11-18:
will do . Thanks @gvdhoorn
Comment by Ajan on 2015-11-19:
@Mehdi Thanks for the suggestion to use the Raspberry pi. But I do not need one. Do not need that much processing in my robot. Arduinos can handle it. Communication among arduinos is going to be a challenge. I am planning to use I2C . But RoS do not support it. Wondering how to write my own support!

A:

No, ROS uses TCP or UDP over IP to do communication and isn't suited for i2c or serial to serial communications. ROS Serial (http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial) provides communication between a microcontroller and a PC using serial. But as far as I know there is nothing like what you've described.

Originally posted by William with karma: 17335 on 2015-11-18
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

