Q:

Will this Project be possible? / ROS Time Syncronisation

Hi Guys,
I would like to discuss the doability of a project. I want to run a couple of ARM Boards (Pandaboard ES) which are connected to each other with an Ethernet-switch. The Boards already run ROS electric and Ubuntu 11.10. Every board is hosting a sensor like a Kinect or Webcam. Now I want to trigger an event and every sensor should publish the data from the exact same time-stamp (synchronization of the data should be in the milliseconds range).
Will that be possible by exporting the master to a single board which is providing the ROS-Time for all other nodes.
Did I get I right that the Timestamps in the Sensor_msgs depend on the ROS-Time and so it should be possible to obtain data from the exact same time stamp or will I encounter a summation of time delays?
Or does the timestamp in the sensor_msgs header depend on the system time? Is there a way to use the clock just from a single board
It would be great to here about your expertise/opinion.
Cheers

Originally posted by dinamex on ROS Answers with karma: 447 on 2012-08-07
Post score: 0

A:

ROS on ARM

Which ARM devices are you talking about? ROS on ARM is in some cases possible (e.g. running a Linux system on an ARM board, such as the Beagleboard), but there aren't many user out there AFAIK. This Q&A gives an insight: http://answers.ros.org/question/10716/ros-on-arm/

Synchronisation

As cagatay already mentioned, you will need to sync your machines (your ARM boards) by hand or with tools like chrony.
A Q&A on this topic: http://answers.ros.org/question/11180/chrony-configuration-and-limitations/
Regarding the actual synchronisation of your data, you have to keep in mind that the data is usually time-stamped on creation. Once you request data, you would get the most recent one. So you need to implement some mechanism to align your data. I recommend to look around for existing code & projects, since data synchronisation is common problem.
But after all, I say, yes it is possible! :-)

Originally posted by bit-pirate with karma: 2062 on 2012-08-08
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by dinamex on 2012-08-09:
So the timestamp in each header of an sensor_msgs depends on the systemclock one the machine and not on the ROS-Master?
Comment by dinamex on 2012-08-09:
for the ARM part see the edited Question.
Comment by Eric Perko on 2012-08-09:
Yes, ROS times are relative to the system clock, not the time on the master (unless you are using sim_time, but that is for simulation). You sync computer clocks with something like ntp or chrony. Also, you need to make sure your sensors are triggerable - I don't think the Kinect is.

