Q:

Is there an easier/more intuitive way to model a robot for ROS then manually programming its geometry in an XML file?

Currently I'm trying to learn how to model robots for use in ROS but the tutorials I find for creating URDF files like in both the official ROS wiki(http://wiki.ros.org/urdf/Tutorials/Building%20a%20Visual%20Robot%20Model%20with%20URDF%20from%20Scratch)  and YouTube show modeling robots by manually editing their geometry in an XML file. Is there software for modeling the URDF robot like in CAD or at least a list of shortcuts to cut-down time for manually re-compiling XML files over and over again to move stuff into the right positions/rotations?

Originally posted by rydb on ROS Answers with karma: 125 on 2020-04-05
Post score: 0

A:

Is there software for modeling the URDF robot like in CAD or at least a list of shortcuts to cut-down time for manually re-compiling XML files over and over again to move stuff into the right positions/rotations?

To each his own, but after you get a bit more comfortable with it, being able to simply load a text file (xml is essentially just text) into an editor and quickly tweak a constant (ie: length of a link, rotation of an axis) here and there is actually really convenient.
Note: I'm not saying there aren't legitimate use-cases for wanting to use a CAD program, but it's a rather large overhead to have to start it all up, change something, save, export, copy over, etc. @Teo Cardoso already mentioned some of the plugins for some CAD tools you could use.
Having written all of that: you could take a look at the ROS plugin for VSCode. It has support for almost live preview of URDF/XACRO while you're editing it (screenshot from here):

You'd still be editing text, but it would cut down on the iteration that seems to be your biggest annoyance.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-04-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by rydb on 2020-04-06:
Live compiling with VS code would defiantly make editing require alot less key-presses then what I do atm, I'll try this out!
Comment by rydb on 2020-04-06:
This works really well! XML editing changes are near instant!

