Q:

Raspberry Pi crashes when I try to build the Catkin workspace

Currently I am trying to follow this guide here to start using the Robot Operating System (currently ROS Indigo). I am at the very final stage where I am trying to build the Catkin workspace using the command:

sudo
./src/catkin/bin/catkin_make_isolated
--install -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release --install-space /opt/ros/indigo This command is from Section 3.3

It works perfectly fine for the first 50 packages or so, but starts hanging when it reaches rospack. I am currently using the Raspbian Jessie, with the x11 desktop environment and trying to install the Desktop GUI version of ROS. I have followed every instruction till this point and am a bit baffled as to my next step.

Here's a picture of the terminal up until when the raspberry pi freezes
Is there a way to change the command mentioned above so that I can ignore rospack completely and deal with the issue once the dependencies have been resolved (the objective of Section 3.3 of the guide)?
It can also be observed that the Raspberry Pi hits 100% processing and the screen blacks out after a little bit. The clock skew warning comes up on every package. I am not sure if this has something to do with this crash.
Please ask me if you would like to get a picture of higher defintion for the terminal up until the freeze and crash

UPDATE
Here is a picture of what happens after a little while when I try and move the mouse :

I'm going to try and run this on a different terminal altogether. The current terminal is a Yakuake (Guake).

UPDATE 2
As I suspected, it has nothing to do with the terminal I am using. I have found this resource from this very question, to ignore the package rospack. I am going to try this out in a bit.

Originally posted by sharan100 on ROS Answers with karma: 83 on 2016-12-07
Post score: 0

A:

The freezes I encounter are usually either due to disk i/o (especially memory swapping) or hardware drivers. I guess the latter can be excluded, so you should monitor the memory exhaustion (e.g. use watch -n 0.5 free -m). You may try to disable swap (sudo swapoff -a), so the compilation is just killed when the physical memory is full.
Edit:
I am not sure whether catkin_make_isolated automatically parallelizes. If so, you might want to disable that (maybe append "-j1"?).
If it is the memory problem and disabling parallelization doesn't help, try to lower the complexity of the compilation of the problematic files.

compile without -g flag (in CMake, set the CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE to Release)
reduce optimization (this will make it slower) by explicitly using -Og or even -O0

Otherwise, getting more RAM is usually an option.
The above are just ideas from the top of my head. Make sure it is the memory swapping problem first. Also: Have you tried waiting?

Originally posted by Felix Endres with karma: 6468 on 2016-12-07
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by sharan100 on 2016-12-07:
But I don't want the compilation killed, rospack is certainly very important and I would like to know how to actually build it in my catkin workspace.
Comment by sharan100 on 2016-12-07:
I'll try appending the -j1 option and seeing what happens. Let me get back to you in a few minutes.
Comment by sharan100 on 2016-12-07:
-j1 option seems to be working, but I am facing other errors. I guess, that's a topic for another question!
Comment by Haresh Karnan on 2018-02-26:
-j1 did the trick. Thanks ! I have covered the setup as a writeup here :
https://hareshmiriyala.wordpress.com/2018/02/27/installing-robot-operating-system-on-a-raspberry-pi/
Comment by suab123 on 2019-08-13:
-j1 did the trick

