Q:

Are there any comprehensive video courses or lecture notes on Industrial robotics?

I am really new to the topic. There doesn't seem to be lot of overlap between Industrial robotics and Hobby robotics (atleast in certain areas like control etc).Please correct me if i am wrong. I actually tried going through Fanuc website, and most of the content is restricted. I would like to know if there is any course on how to operate Industrial robots? its PLC programming? or any application specific course etc?

A:

To directly answer your question, you can take a look at some of the ROS MoveIt! Videos. Check out the Udacity robotics courses.

To give a more opinionated answer...
I've worked both with industrial robots and mobile robots, so my opinion is that if you learn mobile robotics concepts including manipulators and become familiar with robot system design, you'll be able to do well in industrial robotics. However, industrial robots are typically programmed in a very different way.
Mobile robots are designed to sense and respond to their environments.
Industrial robots are primarily designed to follow pre-planned instructions and manipulate their environments.
So industrial robots are typically not designed with a wide array of sensors and complex conditional logic. It's a lot of sequential programming in specialized languages such has RAPID (ABB), KUKA Robot Language, KAREL, Fanuc TP (each robot manufacturer has its own, and there are some industry standards). It's a lot more like CNC programming, but without G and M code and rather a list of human-readable sequential steps. You can watch YouTube to get up to speed on any of these languages, but none of them are that revolutionary. If you're already a programmer, you'll probably cringe a little and roll your eyes when you see these languages.
The skills in mobile robotics transfer over, and you can even make big improvements to the industrial robotics world by bringing in the more traditional skillset (which sensors, algorithms to use, metrology, etc.)
Most training on industrial robots is either done at universities that have partnerships with the robotics companies or at companies that have purchased these robots. Thus it's hard to get into the details of this field without being there. But you're not missing much in my humble opinion. I've been through those trainings and I mostly rolled my eyes because industrial robotics seems to be miles behind the rest of the robotics industry in terms of how the user would program them. Thus just learning robotics in general will help a lot.
Most industrial robots just perform DSP on the motor signals to figure out where they are. It's amazing and kind of scary, but there's no physical positioning feedback. The error adds up through the chain out to the end effector and it's a pain. Some of the more advanced robotics groups thus measure the end effector from the outside to correct these estimates, and that's done with expensive software rather than someone actually programming anything.
In general, if you learn MoveIt!, you've read about robotic arm path planning, and you are familiar with robotics concepts in general, you'll be ready to jump into the world of industrial robots, and you might even cringe a little when you see how the robots that run factories really work.

