Q:

Detecting non static objects while a robot is moving

Hi everyone,
I have a turtlebot 2.0 (groovy) with a laser rangefinder (Hokuyo urg04lx) and a kinect. The robot performs navigation and mapping very well.
Now I'd like it to recognize moving objects, especially people, while moving as well. So I made some considerations I'd like to share with you, any feedback woud be appreciated :

Using "Detecting people on a ground plane with RGB-D data" from pcl. But this might be overkill.

Using "Canonical Scan Matcher" outliers somehow. Then stop the robot and launch NITE user tracker to remove any doubt. A lot more efficient I guess, but I don't know how to publish outliers.

Same kind of approach as above but with a own implementation. Using for instance obstacles in the local map and comparing prediction and observation just like this paper: "Dynamic object detection using Laser data and transforming the points to lines". But I'm sure there is an easier solution than reinventing the wheel.

Which approach should I consider first ? Do you see anything else even easier than those suggestions ?
Thank you very much.

Originally posted by Rouno on ROS Answers with karma: 68 on 2013-05-05
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Rouno on 2013-06-06:
Hi there, any advice ?
Comment by ctguell on 2013-10-17:
@Rouno im trying to accomplish the same, navigate with people moving.  To detect people i used the code in pcl17 package and it works well.  Any question regarding this im happy to reply, also have you been able to navigate with moving objects?
Comment by KruseT on 2013-10-21:
Discussions are easier in Forums, try this one: https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/ros-sig-navigation maybe

A:

@ctguell,
I guess you're using people detector on ground plane from pcl aren't you ? We also gave it a try but as our robot camera shoots on below, the algorithm didn't work very well. For now we're using a laser based people detection but I'm sure that taking care of ICP outliers would definitely be the best option.

Originally posted by Rouno with karma: 68 on 2013-10-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by ctguell on 2013-10-18:
@Rouno have you been able to navigate with moving objects? Thanks

