Q:

How to install ROS on Poineer-3DX

Hi,everyone.
I have a Poineer-3DX robot, the onboard computer system now is Windows 2000. I can connect the robot with my laptop(already installed with ROS hydro and Ubuntu 12.04)  through a serial line。
My first question is: whether I should install ROS on the onboard computer? If I have to, how to install? The instruction of the installation is not clear.
My second question is :When I send the command
rostopic pub -1 /RosAria/cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist '{linear:  {x: 0.1, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}}'
to the real robot, it can move, but very slowly even I change the linear x velocity to a bigger value, what's the problem? However, if I run the command to the simulator, the change of the velocity works.
Thank you guys.

Originally posted by hangzhang on ROS Answers with karma: 88 on 2013-10-28
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by autonomy on 2013-10-30:
This is just a guess (from working with p2os), but the robot may move slowly because somewhere in the params the max velocity value is set to a very small number. Sometimes, with ROS nodes, parameters are not documented well. See if you can find it in the source or if there is one set by the sim.

A:

On our pioneer-3d we have installed ros on the onboard computer. But if you can control it over laptop and the serial interface it will work that way two, in my opinion. But i personally prefer the onboard computer.
I have never used windows, but the Ubuntu/debian installation of rosaria is very well [http://wiki.ros.org/ROSARIA/Tutorials/How%20to%20use%20ROSARIA]. But the installation is still a little tricky, because ROSARIA does not follow all the conventions.
I am not sure but i think the application was build in a wrong folder and i had to copy it manually into my ros workspace.
To your second question, maybe there are buttons on the pioneer to control how fast he drives. I know that there is a button to stop the motors, maybe there are also some to configure the speed.

Originally posted by pkohout with karma: 336 on 2013-10-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by hangzhang on 2013-10-30:
Thanks for your reply. For the first question, if you install ROS on the onboard computer, how would you use ROS with the Pioneer? I mean that maybe you need a  displayer to connect to robot and a keyboard  and a mouse。
Comment by pkohout on 2013-11-05:
you need a Monitor and a keyboard (maybee a mouse) to see the desktop. But you will just need it the first several times.
Simply use SSH, and debug via your workstation. Works fine.

