Q:

What parts do I need for my first robot?

I have never built a robot before and I am looking to get started. The problem is that I have no idea what parts I will need... below are a list of things I want the robot to do.

Have a speaker
Be able to sense objects around him so that he doesn't bump into them.
Understand different commands

So pretty much I want to be able to tell my robot to go to the kitchen and he could move over there and tell the person in the kitchen what that person wants. The person would then put it on the robot and he would drive back to the person that made the request. (I know there is not much use to this robot but I think it would still be pretty cool)
I am not worried about learning programming languages so it doesn't matter what languages the board supports. (Have some basic knowledge in Java and Python).
Thanks!

A:

A robot that can accept voice commands and travel to a specified location, do something, and then return is not trivial. The robot you are suggesting is a rather advanced robot for a beginner. I would suggest starting with just a basic robot that can move and avoid objects. Once you get that down I would try each of your objectives one by one in a new robot.
Much of what you'll be able to do at first depends on how good are you with electronics, programming, and mechanics. These are the three main skills that are useful to building and programming robots. What tools do you have available to you? A 3d printer is very useful.
For a first robot, the first place I'd start on the web is the site Let's Build Robots, Start Here. There are a number of other sites on the web that will help you with building a first robot.
Other good starting points are the Lego Mindstorms EV3 kit. I started with an earlier version of this. Another good company is VEX Robotics. Yet another good company is Servo City. They have a line of inexpensive robot kits along with more expensive ones. My current robot, Groucho, uses a base I bought as a kit from Servo City.
You will need to learn to use microcontrollers such as the Arduino. My favorite microcontroller for both robots and other electronics is the Teensy 3.6, available from Adafruit. But I'd start with an Arduino because there is so much information available about it on the web.
While building some small robots, I would suggest start experimenting with the programming side of things. You may also need some sensors. Look into the Robot Operating System. ROS has a simulator so that you don't need to physically build all of your robots. I suggest ROS because it contains a lot of the software building blocks needed for a robot.
I prefer to use Linux for building my robots' brains. There are a lot of Single Board Computers (SBC's) such as the Raspberry Pi. The Pi is a good platform, not only for the "brain" of a robot, but also for learning Linux. It is possible to used almost any operating system to control a robot including Microsoft Windows and the Android operating system (using a tablet or phone to control a robot).
I would suggest that while you're beginning with building robots, that you also learn Linux and work with various packages that you'll need for later. You could download some speech recognition packages and program a computer to answer to simple commands. You could learn ROS. You could learn computer vision. These are some of the things you'll need to use in your eventual robot.
If you are not good with mechanics, like me, then build some kits to learn. If you need to learn electronics, get a breadboard and start practicing blinking lights. If you need to learn programming, then start with a programming language and learn it. I'd suggest Python because it is easier for beginners, and then move onto Java or C/C++.
I wish you luck and welcome to robot building!

