Q:

Sourcing install setup.bash with cross compiled install

Hi,
I am using ROS Jade on an Odroid XU4 (ARM) running Ubuntu 15.04. I have managed to successfully cross-compile a bare bones ROS Jade install, and moved the install_isolated folder to the Odroid. I source the setup.bash file and can start roscore, so far so good. However, when I cross-compile my own package (in a separate folder from the install) and move that devel folder to the board, then sourcing that setup.bash file removes the install_isolated/bin directory from the PATH and I can no longer start roscore.
When I cross compile my package on my computer I had sourced the install_isolated/setup.bash for the cross compiled install.
What steps do I need to take in order to not have my package's setup.bash file remove the install from PATH?
Thanks!

Originally posted by I.T on ROS Answers with karma: 67 on 2016-01-24
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2016-01-25:
May I suggest a title change? I'd suggest to include at least the fact that you're cross-compiling. Possibly also how you deploy to your target.
Comment by I.T on 2016-01-31:
Thank you for the suggestion, let's hope it helps.
Comment by I.T on 2016-02-19:
No respose in almost a month, I assume this means that either:

I am way off, or
It should work this way, at least in theory.
But which one is it? :)

A:

The short answer is, no one else is using ROS like this. You're mostly on your own.
I think setup.sh has an --extend option that may let you source multiple setup.sh files in sequence, and extend your workspace instead of overwriting it.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2016-02-19
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by I.T on 2016-02-20:
Thank you, using the --extend option when sourcing the second setup.bash works.
Am I alone in cross compiling my packages or in the way I move them to the target board?
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-02-20:
I don't know of anyone else who has gotten the cross-compilation process to work. If you have time to post instructions on how you're doing it, it would be greatly appreciated.

