Q:

Creating custom message and service for groovy, using them with Python

Hello,
I am discovering ROS groovy and I try to create a custom service. I followed the tutorial on creating a service with Python and did a Python node. But when I run my Python node, I get
'from myModuleName.srv import mysrv.srv
ImportError : no module named myModuleName'
I checked with rossrv that my service is known, I also tried to follow instructions in 'What's A Catkin?'
I don't know where to look for debug logs or build errors. What should I do ?
Thanks.
Manon
PS : the more I think of it, it does not look like the service is faulty, but Python can't find the right files to import.

Originally posted by Manon on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2013-02-07
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by joq on 2013-02-09:
Please update your question with a link to the tutorial you are following, so people will know what you are doing.
Comment by Manon on 2013-02-18:
Well, I don't have enough karma to publish links. The tutorial for catkin is this one : http://www.ros.org/wiki/catkin/what and the python tutorial is the standard create a simple service and client in Python.
Comment by Manon on 2013-02-18:
Thank you for your help. I will retry and let you know the result. The problem may be that when you click on a link on the tuto you go automatically to the rosmake version so I may have followed the wrong one.

A:

It's an old question, but still a top hit on Google. So I'll post a possible solution:
First of all, as dornhege pointed out, your import statement is incorrect.  It should be:
from myModuleName.srv import mysrv

Also, have you sourced the setup.bash file in your catkin workspace? It should be at catkin_workspace_name/devel/setup.bash (where catkin_workspace_name is swapped with the name of your catkin workspace).  To source it:
source /path/path/path/catkin_workspace_name/devel/setup.bash

You can also add that line to your .bashrc file so that it's automatically sourced every time you open a terminal.

Originally posted by Benjamin Blumer with karma: 287 on 2013-11-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by akudoku on 2014-01-09:
lubuntu 12.4
hydro
in almost same env, the solution makes me alive!
i spent a whole day to reset my project which copy the service and client example.
anyway, just doing 'source ~/CATKIN_WS/devel/setup.bash' solve this problem.
i'm so happy now.
thanks.

