Q:

Can I build instant maps from kinect

Hi all
ROS is really a great stranger to me.
I am using Xbox360, ROS Kinetic, Ubuntu16.04 LTS
I am doing a  project in which the robot should produce the map as it goes through an unknown environment. Is it possible to do so. As of now I only know the method of using .bag files i.e., hector_slam but I have a problem there also. Any way I have posted a question regarding that already.
Can anyone suggest me a way how to do the mapping instantly only using kinect. I mean I  can't provide /tf  data from the robot. But, I want to get the map without any thing like bag file.
Sorry for poor English. Hope you all understand the question.
UPDATE
I HAVE CLONED THE RTab PACKAGE INTO MY CATKIN WORK SPACE. AND THEN I AM DOING CATKIN_MAKE. I HAVE THIS ERROR
CMake Error at rtabmap_ros/CMakeLists.txt:21 (find_package):
By not providing "FindRTABMap.cmake" in CMAKE_MODULE_PATH this project has
asked CMake to find a package configuration file provided by "RTABMap", but
CMake did not find one.
Could not find a package configuration file provided by "RTABMap"
(requested version 0.14.0) with any of the following names:
RTABMapConfig.cmake
rtabmap-config.cmake

Add the installation prefix of "RTABMap" to CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH or set
"RTABMap_DIR" to a directory containing one of the above files.  If
"RTABMap" provides a separate development package or SDK, be sure it has
been installed.
Thank you in advance....

Originally posted by NAGALLA DEEPAK on ROS Answers with karma: 18 on 2018-01-14
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by PeteBlackerThe3rd on 2018-01-15:
You only build packages from source if you really need to in my opinion! Since there are binary packages available for this you can install it with a single line as it says at the top of the installation guide. Keep it simple.
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-rtabmap-ros

A:

There are two well developed ROS systems for doing exactly what you want. RTAB-Map is the one we prefer in our lab, but the alternative rgbslam is also very good and depending on your exact use case may be a better solution.
Both of these systems are designed specifically for RGB-D sensors such as the Kinect, and have fairly good setup guides.
Hope this helps.
Update: You're trying to do 2D mapping with a 3D sensor, how is the robot moving? If it's driving over a flat floor and will not tilt, drive up ramps etc then you can extract a 2D slice from the kinect point cloud and convert it to a (mock) laser scan. If you robot will be driving in a 3D fasion then 2D mapping is not appropriate and you'll have to build a 3D map.
I think the documentation of rgbdslam is not up-to date. We've made it work on kinetic without any problems.
Out of interest why is a 3D map not suitable to your needs?
Update: Theoretically 3D mapping is more complicated, but since the software has already been made for you, and you're using a 3D sensor it will be easier for you to implement 3D than converting your sensor to 2D.
You can find the ROS installation instructions to RTAB map here and there are good set of tutorials, including this one here which describes how to do mapping with several sensors including the kinect you're working with.
Hope this gets you started.

Originally posted by PeteBlackerThe3rd with karma: 9529 on 2018-01-14
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by NAGALLA DEEPAK on 2018-01-14:
Thanks for your response, I want to do 2D_mapping. Moreover rgbslam you stated is for future and indigo. But I am using Kinetic.
Comment by NAGALLA DEEPAK on 2018-01-14:
I thought 3D mapping is more complex than 2D. So I opted for 2D. Could you explain me how you did 3D mapping using kinect. I mean steps to install RTAB and  any further information regarding this is welcome
Comment by NAGALLA DEEPAK on 2018-01-14:
please help me with the installation. I am getting this error while doing catkin_make. Please see  the question for update about these errors
Comment by matlabbe on 2018-01-15:
If you still want to get rtabmap built from source, follow carefully the steps here (in particular 0-2-3). rtabmap and rtabmap_ros should be cloned from the same branch name to be compatible.
Comment by Dox on 2018-03-27:
Hi! Are there any other options that would be worth trying out for 3D mapping and autonomous navigation using RGB-D sensors like Kinect, Astra, PrimeSense? What about using KinFu within ROS? Thanks.
Comment by NAGALLA DEEPAK on 2018-03-27:
I have not been so deep into 3D mapping. But I gave it a try. I tried RGB-D slam with kinect and it worked great. But I think there is some distortion in the map and we have to adjust some parameters. I have read that there are some issues with Kinfu here.

