Q:

Point cloud stitching using ROS

Hi,
I am utilizing a pair of manually calibrated stereo cameras (so, it's not a standard kinect) for obtaining pointclouds.
Assuming I can obtain the (left) camera's post using an April Tag ,
I would like to know if there is a way to  stitch together point clouds in ROS, as long as I know the tf transform of the sensor? (possibly using just command line or launch files ?)
I have seen a few packages (not ROS packages) like this.
I have also seen a few posts on ROS forum (like this but there are no accepted answers)
My use-case:
I would like to build an Octomap (from a pair of manually calibrated stereo cameras) from this and then use it for drone motion planning.
Can someone provide any suggestions on where to start ?
Thanks a lot.

Originally posted by malharjajoo on ROS Answers with karma: 121 on 2018-04-04
Post score: 1

A:

I believe this is what stereo_image_proc (and friends) was made for.
It may not be the most efficient way to do it, but it could be a start.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-04-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by malharjajoo on 2018-04-05:
Hi,  thanks for your answer ... I just want to confirm my understanding, but if I want to map an entire room in 3D, can I just move my stereo camera around (and then somehow register the pointclouds into a single pointcloud) ? I assume this will require me to know the 6D pose of the stereo camera ?
Comment by malharjajoo on 2018-04-05:
I would also like to mention that efficiency is not my concern, since I only want to map the room once.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-05:
Afaik, "registration" of a pointcloud is typically matching RGB values to individual points. I don't believe stereo_image_proc does that, but I haven't checked.
Comment by malharjajoo on 2018-04-05:
Hi, I guess I am a bit unclear on what "registration" means then. I am looking to "stitch" together a sequence of pointclouds (as shown - in this matlab example
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-05:
It could just be me misremembering or misunderstanding. Your question sounds more like a mapping one than a simple case of stereo matching and point cloud conversion.
Perhaps rtabmap_ros would be better here.
Comment by malharjajoo on 2018-04-05:
Hi, thanks, Ill look into it. Just updated the question title as well.

