Q:

Does it matter if my electronic speed controllers are close to my brushless motors?

I have built several quadcopters, hexacopters, and octacopters. Between the flight controller (I use 3DR APM2.6 or Pixhawk) and the motors I use heavy duty power wires as well as a servo-style cable carrying a PWM control signal for the ESC. Three short heavy-duty wires then connect the motor to the ESC, one for each phase.
Several times I've heard or read people saying that the electronic speed controllers (ESCs) should be mounted far away from the flight controller (FMU seems to be the abbreviation en vogue) and close to the motors. I think the idea is that this cuts down on interference (I'm not sure what sort) that could be emitted by the long ESC -> motor wires that would be required if you have the ESCs all at the center of the aircraft. Another consideration is that ESCs can be cooled by propellers if they are right under the rotor wash, as mine usually are.
So, I've always mounted ESCs close to motors, but realized that design could be much simpler if ESCs are mounted centrally. So, my question is: what are the pros and cons of mounting ESCs close to the motor versus close to the FMU?

A:

First, you can look at Mikrokopter as an example of quad with centrally mounted ESCs.
As for the various engineering reasons for ESC location, here is some rationale behind the two you mentioned
1) Interference/noise. Non-steady state current running through wire can induce current to flow in nearby conductors. Practically speaking, this means that if you have power lines wires next to signal wires, the changing current in the power wires will create noise on the signal wires. 
However, this effect degrades with both distance and non-parallelism of the wires (ideal perpendicular wires don't have this coupling effect). So as long as you don't run signal wires right next to your power wires, you should be fine.
2) Cooling. ESCs contain power electronics that need to be cooled. Certainly having them under the forced air coming from the spinning rotors helps but at the theoretical cost of reduced aerodynamic efficiency. If you can keep your ESCs cool enough elsewhere , then no problems. 

