Q:

What's the most accurate way to obtain a locational fix using GPS?

Obviously GPS is the most obvious and accessible technology for obtaining a locational "fix" for a robot at any particular time. However, while it's great sometimes, in other locations and situations it's not as accurate as I'd like, so I'm investigating whether there's a relatively easy way to improve on this accuracy (or not, if that turns out to be the case.)
I've considered the following options, but found limited information online:

Would using a much better antenna help, especially for low signal areas? I'm thinking yes to this, but if so how would I construct such an antenna and know that it's an improvement? Are there any good guides on how to do this? I could use a ready made antenna if they're not too expensive.
Would using multiple separate receivers in tandem help, or would they likely all be off by a similar amount, or would I not be able to extract a meaningful average with this approach?
What sort of characteristics should I look for when choosing a good GPS receiver to help accuracy?
Is there anything else I should consider which I've missed?

A:

Can't answer all your questions, but based on your use case Differential-GPS might help you.
Modern tractors are using this for precisely navigating on fields (in autonomous mode).
Here fixed ground stations are used, which know their exact position and calculate the error in the current signal. This adjustment is then used by the other GPS receiver in the area.

A:

A traditional approach is to use an error correcting algorithm like a Kalman filter. By combining dead reckoning from wheel encoders and heading commands with GPS you can smooth out GPS jitter. This is not an instantaneous improvement as it requires a series of measurements to estimate the error inherent in the GPS signal.

A:

As other posters have pointed out, using some form of differential GPS will give you large improvements in precision. We have used the Magelan mb500 commercial platform and it claims an accuracy of around 2-3 cm when in RTK fix mode. However, in areas of bad satellite coverage it would sometimes not even provide a solution at all, where cheap GPS receivers in a phone could. 
There is an open source library called RTKLib which looks very promising for using cheap GPS equipment with a number of different methods for improving the precision. 

