Q:

How do i check that ros-indigo-image-pipeline package is available for kinetic

I am currently working with Jackal and all their codes and packages imply to use indigo but i currently have kinetic. Here is a link to the website i am using as reference.
http://www.clearpathrobotics.com/assets/guides/jackal/network.html

Originally posted by xiswitchx on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2018-05-23
Post score: 0

A:

First a quick answer: I've used Kinetic with a Jackal running Indigo many times and have run into very few issues. image_pipeline is certainly released on Kinetic and can be installed using sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-image-pipeline. You likely already have this package installed.
A good question is how to check what packages are released for a particular distro (allowing installation from apt-get)? You could:

Check using apt-cache on your machine (e.g. apt-cache search image-pipeline)
Check the wiki. Note every package page has status indicators at the top highlighting if a package has been released or not. Notice the green "Released button" on the image_pipeline page when you select Kinetic?
There are also several tools online for checking build status. These are likely less useful if you are not a package maintainer, but if you are trying to track down an issue it's good to know these exist. http://build.ros.org/ and http://repositories.ros.org/status_page/ros_kinetic_default.html could both be useful.

If a particular package you need to use isn't released on your target ROS distro, you can always try building from source by obtaining a copy of the source (typically a git clone will do this), and putting it into catkin workspace and trying to build. The multitude of issues that can arise when building from source is a whole other can of worms.

Originally posted by jarvisschultz with karma: 9031 on 2018-05-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by xiswitchx on 2018-05-23:
Thank you, this was very helpful. I am just getting started with ROS and Jackal seems like a good project to start and get a hang of things. Hopefully the few issues you ran into with Kinetic and Indigo are not that bad and I can figure it out.
Comment by jarvisschultz on 2018-05-24:
IIRC, the only issue I've run into is with the message definition of visualization_msgs/Marker changing between Indigo and Kinetic (as described here ). Note that most Jackal packages have been released on Kinetic, so it could...
Comment by jarvisschultz on 2018-05-24:
... be possible to update Jackal to 16.04+Kinetic. I haven't tried this, but if you do run into issues it might be worth reaching out to Clearpath.

