Q:

What's the difference between the term "pose estimation" and "visual odometry"?

I'm reading a paper:

Choi C, Trevor A J B, Christensen H I. RGB-D edge detection and
  edge-based registration[C]//Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS),
  2013 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on. IEEE, 2013: 1568-1575.

which refers: 

Visual features such as corners, keypoints, edges, and color are
  widely used in computer vision and robotic perception for applications
  such as object recognition and pose estimation, visual odometry, and SLAM

I previously assume pose estimation to be roughly equal to visual odometry, yet the text above seems to deny.
So what's their difference? I didn't find much info from google. IMHO, it seems pose estimation is estimating the pose of moving object with the camera static, while visual odometry is estimating the pose of camera in a static(mostly) scene, is that precise enough?

A:

Pose estimation means determining position and orientation.
Odometry is using a (any) sensor to determine how much distance has been traversed, so visual odometry is just clarification that the particular sensor to be used for odometry is visual (a camera, typically). Traversed distance, though, means that odometry is relative - your car odometer may indicate that you traveled 10 miles, but that doesn't really mean anything unless you know your starting position. 
Similarly, a wheel encoder on the left and right wheels could give you distance and rotation as the vehicle moves, but again that doesn't mean anything unless you know the starting position and orientation.
As given above, a pose is a position and orientation. It is an absolute value between one frame and another. An accelerometer and a magnetometer can give you an absolute orientation (relative to Earth's gravity and magnetic North), but they can't give you an absolute position. You would need to add a GPS for that. 
You can integrate the accelerometer to estimate the elapsed position, but that is meaningless without a starting position and is also prone to accumulating errors. Similarly, visual odometry doesn't mean anything without a known starting position and is also prone to accumulating errors.
So, in conclusion, a pose is an absolute measurement between one frame and another, of position and orientation. 
Odometry is generally used to refer to an elapsed or relative position and orientation and, because it is not absolute, is prone to drift over time. 

A:

It is also often the case that the author lacks knowledge, makes mistakes, or is adding unnecessary statements to their work. Just because it is published does not make it true. 
In this case though, it might be that the conjuction "and" and commas are confusing you.

such as object recognition and pose estimation, visual odometry, and SLAM

could probably be written more clearly as

such as object recognition, object pose estimation, visual odometry, and SLAM.

so I would interpret them as different.

