Q:

Programming Robots with JavaScript

As somebody who is spending the majority of his time programming in JavaScript, what's the best route to get into small-robotics without needing to deviate too much from my current language focus?
Are there any project kits or tools that make use of the JavaScript language that might make the field more approachable for developers like myself? I would even be interested in virtual environments where all code is executed in a simulation.

A:

There are a couple of projects out there that mate the Arduino platform to the Node.js javascript execution engine.  Take a look at Johnny-Five, which is a library on top of the Arduino Firmata remote control protocol or node-reflecta, which is a Node.js interface for the Arduino Reflecta remote control protocol.
I've personally built a Node.js controlled robot called RocketBot, that combines node-reflecta with node-joystick on top of a Beaglebone and an Arduino so I can attest this approach works well.

A:

Hmm, interesting question! I personally would suggest that you take a look at the Arduino platform. It's programmed in C, so the syntax is going to be... familiar, to a JavaScript writer. In my humble opinion, knowing how the syntax (while loops, if/than blocks, etc) is laid out is 70% of the battle, once you're familiar with that, you can plug and play. You can pick up a starter kit for around $30 online from the good folks at SparkFun.com or adafruit.com, you can program it on a PC, Mac or Linux machine, and it comes pre-loaded with enough examples to ease you into the language quickly. I'm not saying that you're just gonna drop some JavaScript code into it and be on your way, but I was a JavaScript programmer when I started out with Arduino, and I found it quite easy to pick up and run with. Good luck, as a part time teacher in robotics it's always awesome to see people getting into the field!
P.S. - you should also be familiar/comfortable with building electronic circuits (lights, motors and the like), but any good Arduino introduction kit worth its salt will get you started if you don't have any experience.

A:

Robot Operating System (ROS) offers the ability to use Javascript to control your robots. Specifically you will want to look at rosbridge. You will then need to use rosserial to interface with the microcontroller controlling your robot.
While I am a big fan of ROS this is an overly complicated way to begin exploring the field of robotics IMHO. You would be better served to pick up an Arduino and learning a little bit of C. Arduino does a great job of making the process simple and C is not a large deviation from JS from a syntax perspective.

