Q:

How to proceed with this SLAM implementation on an iRobot Create with Kinect?

I am not referring to a turtlebot. I have an iRobot Create (old one) and a Kinect connected to it. I am trying to use the kinect to generate a 2D map of the robot environment and later navigate the robot autonomously through it. I am new to ROS and was wondering if there are any tutorials that someone could suggest that describe a step by step process? If not, then can someone help me with defining an outline for how to proceed?
Till now I have this -

A netbook with ROS Groovy running
Installed the ros-brown-driver package for iCreate
Currently installed the Turtlebot packages as well.

I am not sure how to proceed next. This is a very beginner question so I was hoping someone could help me out?

Originally posted by nemesis on ROS Answers with karma: 237 on 2013-12-09
Post score: 0

A:

After you have done the beginner tutorials.
I would do the tutorials in tf ( manages coordinate transforms)
http://wiki.ros.org/tf/Tutorials
There are some tutorials here
http://wiki.ros.org/Robots/TurtleBot
then have a look at the gmapping package, it will work with the create.
It uses a 2D laser scanner and wheel odometer which the create has.
There are packages to fake a 2D lidar using the kinect.

Originally posted by Sentinal_Bias with karma: 418 on 2013-12-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by nemesis on 2013-12-10:
Like I mentioned. It's not the turtlebot. I have tried installing turtlebot packages and tried running but they don't work. I need help with respect to working with the irobot Create separately. I am having trouble starting off. I will check out the tf tutorials like you mentioned.Thank you for your reply!
Comment by Sentinal_Bias on 2013-12-10:
The turtlebot packages will work with the old irobot-create. There are options in the configurations to change with mobility base you use
Comment by nemesis on 2013-12-10:
The kinect is giving me trouble as of now and I can't work it out.

