Q:

Is there a ROS package manager for Indigo?

I am trying to port this tutorial to ROS Indigo using the source from this repository, however there are some packages missing. Currently I am compiling the packages one-by-one following these instructions, but that becomes tedious very quickly. Am I overlooking a simpler way of accomplishing that? It seems the dependency information from the stack.xml files is completely ignored this way. Am I overlooking something?
Since I am not on Linux, it seems I don't have access to the packages available via sudo apt-get install ros-[package-name].

Originally posted by rauschen on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2016-07-02
Post score: 0

A:

ROS provides three tools for this process: rosinstall_generator, wstool and rosdep
rosinstall_generator and wstool work together to manage a source checkout of multiple packages. wstool uses a workspace file with a list of package directories and remote repository URLs to check out each package into the specified directory, and eep the source checkout up to date. rosinstall_generator can create a workspace file that satisfies all of the dependencies for a specific package or set of packages.
rosdep fills the gaps between ROS packages and the system, by using your system's package manager to install dependencies on system packages.
The typical workflow for these three tools is something like:

Source your existing ROS environment; cd into your workspace directory.

For the new package that you want to install, add that package and any missing dependencies to your workspace file:
rosinstall_generator rviz --deps --exclude RPP | wstool merge -t src - (change rviz to whichever package you want to install)

Update your workspace from the updated workspace file:
wstool update -t src (add -jN to run N downloads in parallel)

Install any missing system dependencies:
rosdep install --from-paths src -i

Build your workspace:
catkin_make

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2016-07-03
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

