Q:

DH-Parameters for Forward Kinematics for Translatory Motion only

I am fairly new to the DH-transformation and I have difficulties to understand how it works. Why are not all coordinates (X+Y+Z) incorporated into the parameters? It seems to me that at least one information is useless/goes to the trash, since there is only a, d (translatory information) and alpha, theta(rotatory information). 
Example: 
The transition between two coordinate systems with identical orientation(alpha=0, theta=0) but with different coordinates(x1!=x2, y1!=y2, z1!=z2). 
DH only makes use of a maximum of two of these information.
Please enlighten me! 
Greetings
:EDIT: 
To clarify which part of the DH-Transform I don't understand, here is an example. 
Imagine a CNC-Mill(COS1) on a stand(COS0) without any variable length(=no motion) between COS0-COS1. For some reason I need to incorporate the transformation from COS0-COS1(=T0-1) into the forward transformation of my CNC-Mill. 

DH-Parameters for T0-1 would be a=5mm, alpha=90°, d=2mm and theta=90°. Assuming this is correct, the dX=10mm information is lost during this process?
If I recreate the relation between COS0 and COS1 according to the DH-Parameters, I end up like this: 

As far as I understand, on non parallel axis the information is not lost because the measurement of a/d would be diagonal, therefore include either dX/dY, dX/dZ or dY/dZ(pythagorean theorem) in one parameter. 
Where is the flaw in my logic?

A:

In DH, the Z axis always goes along the direction of variability. For a rotational (revolute) joint, that means Z is the axis of rotation. For a translational joint (prismatic) the Z axis is in the direction that the joint can translate. For each direction the robot can be actuated, a coordinate system is needed. So your example of a gantry crane, if that crane can be actuated in 3 directions, then it will take 3 coordinate systems to define said crane.  Then the CNC mill will need 3 as well. 
So, now taking a step back. Since our hypothetical 3D gantry crane has 3 coordinate systems, and in each coordinate system the Z axis is along the direction of freedom, you can imagine that from a global perspective, X,Y and Z are dealt with. 
I made a quick illustration. If you look, you can see that Z2 defines a direction that the crane can be actuated, but it is in X direction of the preceding coordinate system (X1). Z1 also defines a direction of acutation, but it is in the Y direction of the preceding coordinate system (Y0). So from a global perspective, the X,Y,Z are essentially incorporated. 
So the basis of your question boils down to, "why is only Z used as the axis of actuation?" I don't have an answer for that, other than probably the math would break down somewhere. 
 
EDIT 
More info based on updated description. To transform between two coordinate systems with no variability in between them, all that is required is a homogeneous transform, as shown. Reference for how these matrices are formed can be found here on page 65 of the text.

