Q:

Help with General ROS query

I am trying to communicate ROS (on a virtual machine) with Optitrack (on a separate computer, Windows) and there have been some suggestions as to what might help.
I am completely new to ROS and Linux systems and the documentations for packages are really really disappointing. I have tried to look up on how to download or build packages which are not on the wiki, tried to understand what any particular package can do and how to go about carrying out a task, but nothing has been helpful. I am sure I am not smart enough as you all might be but I have spent a lot of time trying to understand how to work with ROS and failed miserably at it.
Can anyone please guide me towards some (preferably general) tutorials on how to go about using ROS or certain packages in it so that I can get a better idea about it all?? Like I am trying to use "gt-ros-pkg " to use "ros_vrpn_client" via that for my task and something explaining how it can be done or to point me in the right direction?
I apologize for any rudeness, I am just frustrated 'cause of not being able to work it out properly. If I am missing something which has already been explained before, then I would gladly accept any criticism for my post above and would appreciate it if anyone could guide me in the right direction.

Originally posted by nemesis on ROS Answers with karma: 237 on 2013-02-17
Post score: 0

A:

I am sorry for your frustration. Please note that, while valid, this is really not a general ROS query.
Many organizations throughout the world develop code using the ROS framework. The authors of ros_vrps_client do not seem to have released their package using any of the normal ROS mechanisms. So, the answer to your reasonable question is not apparent to me or (probably) most other ROS users.
If you can figure out who maintains this package, you should try to contact them directly. I took the liberty of tagging your question, hoping that those developers may be more likely to see it.
UPDATE: There seems to be more information on the Georgia Tech repository here.

Originally posted by joq with karma: 25443 on 2013-02-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by joq on 2013-02-18:
Try contacting some of the people mentioned here: http://code.google.com/p/gt-ros-pkg/

