Q:

Redusing resolution from a cad model

Is there a ros package to reduce the resolution of any cad model (.stl/.dae/.obj)?
I am looking for something like this, where any cad model can be converted into a lower resolution voxel grid
I need this lower resolution model (of obstacles) to perform collision checks during path planning. Since its highly computationally expensive to do the same of the original model

Originally posted by vacky11 on ROS Answers with karma: 272 on 2018-03-23
Post score: 0

A:

A ROS package for this could be convex_decomposition. This was (is?) used by the PR2 description package. It doesn't actually resample your geometry using voxels, but creates multiple convex hulls that together represent and encompass the original mesh completely.
Two things to note about this package: 1) it's deprecated (see this issue) and 2) I haven't used it, so can't comment on whether it (still) works.
I mentioned it because you specifically ask for a "ros package".

For some packages in ROS-Industrial we've been using gaschler/bounding-mesh for a similar purpose, and it returns quite nice results for our use-cases. It is not a ROS package though.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-03-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-03-23:
I typically use Blender's decimate modifier when I really need to subsample. If I just need a convex hull, Meshlab has a good filter for that.
Comment by vacky11 on 2018-03-23:
@gvdhoorn thanks a lot for your answer and detailed description. And I specifically asked for a ros package since Im working in ros. Are there any other c++ libraries or something similar which can be used to do this? (other than the one you have already mentioned)
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-03-23:
I'm not entirely sure I understand why this has to be a ROS package: working with meshes seems to me to be a completely independent subject / task. It does not make much sense to me to try and force that into a ROS pkg.
Can you clarify what making it a ROS pkg would improve?
Comment by vacky11 on 2018-03-23:
yes I understand your point. And I am already convinced that using a ros package for this is not necessary.

