Q:

Cannot install ROS Hydro on Ubuntu 12.04

Hi,
I am having a problem installing ROS Hydro on Ubuntu 12.04. The problem appears to be related to Openni/PCL binaries.
I am tyring to install ros-hydro-desktop. I have a x64 machine (might be the problem)
I used to have ROS Fuerte installed, but completely removed it.
Steps taken:
sudo apt-get remove ros-fuerte-ros
sudo apt-get autoremove

I also update to the the distribution.
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

When I try to install ROS hydro
 sudo apt-get install ros-hydro-desktop

I get the following response
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
ros-hydro-desktop : Depends: ros-hydro-viz but it is not going to be installed

Digging deeper into this leads to the following problem
ps-engine : Depends: openni-dev (>= 1.5.2.23~precise)

However, when trying to install "openni-dev", I get the following version installed:
Get:1 http://packages.ros.org/ros/ubuntu/ precise/main openni-dev amd64 1.3.2.1-4+precise2

They are clearly different versions of this package. I tried going to openni but this did not solve the problem.
I followed the installation instruction from the wiki (added deb http://packages.ros.org/ros/ubuntu precise main   to    /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros-latest.list)
These are the threads I have been reading that are related to this problem but do not offer a direct solution
link1
link2
link3
Any feedback/ideas will be greatly appreciated. I have spent several hours on this and not getting closer :S

Originally posted by pmolina on ROS Answers with karma: 108 on 2014-01-07
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by pmolina on 2014-01-07:
This is an actual current problem.
I still do not quite understand the position of ROS support on this.
Check this very interested thread this is still ongoing....
http://www.pcl-users.org/PCL-installation-unmet-dependency-problem-td4030129.html

A:

It looks like you might have added jochen sprickerhof's ppa for PCL, which interferes with hydro.
Removing it with the following command solved the problem for me:
sudo ppa-purge ppa:v-launchpad-jochen-sprickerhof-de/pcl

Originally posted by sebsch with karma: 790 on 2014-02-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 10

Original comments
Comment by pmolina on 2014-06-07:
Thank you very much! You are a savior! This solves most of the problems - I can now install all openni stuff without problems. I have no idea why I had that on my ppas (guess better be careful what is on my ppas from now on)
Comment by edward on 2014-07-16:
Hero of the day. Would never had figured this out myself (busy 3 hours trying to install Hydro besides Groovy)
Comment by Adnan Munawar on 2014-11-04:
Precisely, this had been a common occurance for a long time and many other workaround get you stuck somewhere in the future, like installing turtlebot etc on hydro. Thanks for the proper fix.

