Q:

How to install both ROS jade and indigo together

Hi guys,
I'm working on a 64-bit system with Ubuntu 14.04. I already have ros-jade-desktop-full installed but I'd like to switch to indigo because I need to use the Baxter robot. I'm having trouble installing ros-indigo-desktop-full. It's giving me an error:
    Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-indigo-desktop-full : Depends: ros-indigo-simulators but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

If I try to execute the command sudo apt-get install libsdformat1, it attempts to uninstall all of ros-jade which I do not want to happen. Is there a way of installing indigo without uninstalling jade?
Thanks

Originally posted by atoz on ROS Answers with karma: 58 on 2016-03-03
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by BennyRe on 2016-03-04:
Usually this should just simply work. Have you tried executing sudo apt-get dist-upgrade or some other apt-get dependency conflict trouble shooting steps?

A:

I was in a hurry so I ended up uninstalling jade and installing indigo. I assume it is something to do with the 2 different gazebo versions for each distro because even after I uninstalled jade, it didn't let me install indigo until I uninstalled some independent jade-gazebo packages.

Originally posted by atoz with karma: 58 on 2016-03-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by BennyRe on 2016-03-07:
I converted your comment to an answer. Please mark it as correct if your problem is solved.
Comment by atoz on 2016-03-20:
I'd actually prefer to be able to install both so I'd like a solution to this if one is available
Comment by tfoote on 2017-03-27:
If you are using the OSRF backports of gazebo they may collide. If you use the default versions of ROS packages they are installable side by side.

