Q:

can not install ROS in Ubuntu 13.04

Hi I've been trying to install ROS in Ubuntu 13.04 for the past two weeks.  But I get an error message everytime I type in
sudo apt-get install ros-hydro-desktop-full
the error is "Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages."
I've tried everything on the internet, but nothing seems to be working.  Please help me out.
sudo apt-get install ros-hydro-desktop
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-hydro-desktop : Depends: ros-hydro-common-tutorials but it is not going to be installed
                     Depends: ros-hydro-geometry-tutorials but it is not going to be installed
                     Depends: ros-hydro-robot but it is not going to be installed
                     Depends: ros-hydro-ros-full but it is not going to be installed
                     Depends: ros-hydro-ros-tutorials but it is not going to be installed
                     Depends: ros-hydro-urdf-tutorial but it is not going to be installed
                     Depends: ros-hydro-visualization-tutorials but it is not going to be installed
                     Depends: ros-hydro-viz but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

Originally posted by sis007 on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2014-07-20
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-07-20:
Please edit your question to include the full output of the error message.
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-07-20:
Have you enabled the universe and multiverse repositories?

A:

Without more information, my first guess is that this is related to the fact that Ubuntu recently stopped supporting Ubuntu 13.04 and move the repository elsewhere.
See this question for more background: http://answers.ros.org/question/187016/raring-repositories-for-odroid-u3-ros-build/

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2014-07-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Sendoh on 2014-08-25:
Hi ahendrix,
I have met similar problem. Have you got it fixed?
Thanks for your help.
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-08-25:
I don't have this problem, so I can't confirm if the fix I suggested worked or not. Have you tried switching your sources.list to the old-releases repository, as my other answer suggests?
Comment by Sendoh on 2014-08-26:
Thanks for your response. I did not know how to switch my sources.list and tried several time but failed. I have just installed ubuntu 14.04 and successful installed ROS Indigo. So it must be some problems in ubuntu 13.04.
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-08-26:
In the future, rather than asking "did you fix this", ask a more specific question, and make it obvious that you've done some research. Maybe something like "I tried to switch my sources.list to the old-release repository, but it doesn't seem to be working"

