Q:

mapping from camera/Image-raw to kinect RGB-D

Hi every body
I'm working on follow-me task. The goal is to make a turtle-bot-like robot follow a specific person in the crowd. I use skeleton_markers to find joints of target person's body and with some control procedure follow her/him.
To better support the gained information from skeleton_markers, I want to know how to find corresponding pixel(s) of a specific joint, so I will be able to extract some visual features to uniquely identify the followed person in the crowd.
Concisely, what is the x-y (in pixel) of a joint (that skeleton_markers has published) so I can draw a bounding-box around it. And also in case of losing the followed person (for example due to changing pose), I want to have an approximate place -based on the aforementioned bounding-box- to look for the person in that area.
Can somebody tell any package or method/procedure to achieve this?
Any help would be greatly appreciated.
P.S.: I'm using ROS Hydro on Ubuntu 12.04.
P.P.S: Packages like OpenTLD can follow a textured, but I can't find a way to hint the skeleton_markers package to search a specific place to find the person in case of losing her/him.

Originally posted by Ho'jat Kaveh on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2015-02-16
Post score: 0

A:

Hello, i'm using hydro and pcl to do this. But i'm not able yet to set the spesific person to be followed. As far as i know point cloud has no task like you wrote. Have you done this? With skeleton_markers?

Originally posted by Karz with karma: 16 on 2015-09-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Ho'jat Kaveh on 2015-09-19:
I'm sorry to inform you that in the end I couldn't solve the problem using skeleton_markers in ROS and switched to Microsoft package on windows. As recall my main unsolved problem was that I couldn't find a transformation matrix from/to depth space to/from color space.
Comment by Karz on 2015-09-20:
Ok no problem.. thank you for your answer
Cheers :)

