Q:

How to build a liquid filling machine using piston?

My team developed a filling machine for liquids which uses a piston to measure and deliver volumes 0.1 to 1 liters into bottles. It is built mostly with mechanical parts and we'd like to replace most of them with electronic ones.
How do I build a machine to pull liquid from a reservoir and fills a bottle using a piston, with electronic parts such as stepper motor, linear actuators and sensors?
I understand this is somewhat vague. Any aligned response is appreciated.
Update:
This machine should, at its max speed, fill a 1 litter bottle with water in 2 seconds (to deliver 30 bottles per minute). Higher viscosity liquids may take longer.
It should not spill so liquid needs some filling acceleration control.
You may assume two operation modes: with bubbles and without bubbles. The first is a plus.
I'd like to be able to change the volume electronically (via a LCD menu).
I thought of a single main valve that switches between the reservoir and the bottle. That should be controlled electronically too. I could use two valves too.

A:

Yes, general question.  Here's some general bits-o-answer: some assembly is required.
First, I would leave the decision about stepper vs. some other kind of motor until later -- it should be a tactical, not a strategic, decision.
Second, assuming that the positive displacement idea works at all, I would assume that at the core of your machine you still need that piston that you mention.  I would achieve controlled displacement of the piston by using some sort of linear actuator that has lots of available force and considerable mechanical stiffness, coupled with a good distance measurement on the piston.  I'd close my outer loop around the distance that the piston has traveled.
What springs to mind for a linear actuator is either a stepper motor (probably geared down) driving a jack screw, or a small DC gear motor, with an encoder on the motor and speed control, driving a jack screw.  I am personally biased against steppers, so if I were King on this project it would almost certainly be the DC gear motor -- but if you were paying me to implement it with a stepper, I'd say "sure!" and make sure that you selected one that had more than sufficient torque to get the job done.
The field is pretty open as far as the piston position sensor.  I don't know how clean your environment is, but assuming reasonable cleanliness I'd probably choose an optical linear encoder with a good fine line -- but I know there's other technologies out there that would work as well.
For control I'd close the piston, fill the piston by some extra amount to account for bubbles or whatever, switch the flow over to the bottle, then push the piston in by the correct distance to get the amount of fill desired.
Or, I'd find a way to weigh the bottles as I was filling them, and do the job by weight.

