Q:

Optimal location of the center of mass for an inverted pendulum

I'm building an inverted pendulum to be controlled by DC motors, but I've run across a conundrum.  Personal life experience tells me that it's better to have a lower center of mass to maintain balance.  On the other hand, the greater the moment of inertia (e.g. the higher the center of mass), the easier it is to maintain balance as well.
These two views both seem plausible, and yet also seem contradictory.   For an inverted pendulum, is there an optimal balance between the two perspectives?  Or is one absolutely right while the other absolutely wrong?  If one is wrong, then where is the error in my thinking?

A:

The two views are not contradictory; they apply to two different situations, which you are treating as a single one.
Your personal experience about having a low center of mass applies to situations where there is a stable position -- a local minimum height for the center of mass.  For example, if you have a vase on a shelf, the height of the vase's center of mass (in relation to the width of its base) determines how far it can wobble from side to side without tipping over.  Shown here with trucks:

The wobbling of a vase represents the tendency of the vase's center of mass to return to that local minimum height. If it tips over too far, the center of mass will find a different (and undesirable) minimum height.
The inverted pendulum situation has no "stable" position -- no local minimum for the center of mass.  This shouldn't be surprising, because it rests on a single point. 

So in the vase example, once the vase begins its inevitable fall, the height of the vase's center of mass affects how much time it will take to complete that movement.  In the case of the inverted pendulum, this affects how much time you have to correct for that undesired outcome.
So if either one of these is the "absolutely wrong" way to look at an inverted pendulum, it's the "resting in a stable position" situation.  

