Q:

using arduino inestead arbotix for controll motors

i want using arduino for control dc motor   . What steps are needed  ??
what change i need to use codes in  ROS by Example Vol2 book . i want using arduino inestead  arbotix controller  to send command to DC motors.
in book used arbotix package . like this example(please look at line 14) . i have to change this package??

Originally posted by zakizadeh on ROS Answers with karma: 217 on 2017-10-25
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-26:
If you don't want to change any code then this is not a ROS question I believe.
In general:

get a controller & amps that are compatible with your motors
find / write node with a similar enough ROS API as the dynamixel drivers
update the launch files

Comment by zakizadeh on 2017-10-26:
can i change this code and upload on arduino ??
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-10-26:
I have no idea. I don't use dynamixels, nor any of the arbotix packages.

A:

Here is an explanation of how you could have an arduino control your motors in a general way:
Components required:

An arduino with code that can control your motor
A computer running ROS and a node that publishes data to a topic, such as an integer that corresponds to a motor value that you would like to use as a throttle value for your motor

If you have those two things you can modify the arduino code by adding ROS functionality to it. Do the first of these 3 tutorials: http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial_arduino/Tutorials/Arduino%20IDE%20Setup

Arduino IDE Setup
Hello World (example publisher)
Blink (example subscriber)

With these examples you will gain the knoweledge to allow you to send AND receive data to/from your arduino. With this knoweldge you can have your arduino serve a motor controller, by sending it throttle values and having it convert those throttle values to whatever signals are required to control your motors. Easy peazy lemon squeezy!

Originally posted by psammut with karma: 258 on 2017-10-27
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by zakizadeh on 2017-10-27:
thanks . in book used arbotix package  . like this example . i shoud to change this package??
Comment by psammut on 2017-10-27:
You should create your own package and your own node to interface with the arduino. First get the arduino to control your motors, then create a package and node to talk to the arduino.
Comment by zakizadeh on 2017-10-27:
i want to run this  example . what data is send to serial port ?? can i write program in arduino to get these data from serial port and manage dc motors?

