Q:

How to learn ROS if I am a complete novice with no computer science knowledge

I have no knowledge in robotics or computer science, and am a windows user. I know a bit of C++. I will have to use ROS for my PhD, and have started learning it. However, so many terms are unknown to me in ROS wiki that I am having a hard time understanding how ROS actually works. How should I overcome this problem

Originally posted by ros_beginner_09 on ROS Answers with karma: 23 on 2018-04-12
Post score: 2

A:

Personally I'd say: computer science is not needed, a (strong) programming background will help tremendously though. "a bit of C++" does sound like that could be improved.
I'd start without any ROS (seeing as you're starting a PhD, you should have some time to ignore ROS for now), but some good tutorials on:

Linux (command line and daily usage)
C++ (perhaps your university has a course)
perhaps Python
and as @VictorLamoine suggested: take some time to look into CMake (as the build tool underlying Catkin)

You don't need to be a wizard (so don't overdo looking-for and completing tutorials), but you do need a decent background in these things.
Then look at ROS.
(you could of course always parallelise things, but I've noticed with 'my' students that this can cause them to be overwhelmed by new concepts, and have a hard time properly integrating all the new knowledge).

Finally: understand that software engineering (the art of putting programs / structures together in a logical and maintainable way) is just like any other engineering dicipline:

identify a problem/task
divide it into smaller problems/tasks
solve subproblems
combine solutions into final solution

ROS ideally helps with steps 2 and 4, by making the effects of dividing solutions into smaller parts almost transparent to your program (ie: communication is taken care of for you).
Programming is just a way to encode your solutions in a format that allows them to be executed by a machine -- in this case a computer.
Learning to program is the process of being able to do that.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-04-12
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 8

Original comments
Comment by ros_beginner_09 on 2018-04-12:
Thank you very much for the reply. Do you think using Ubuntu regularly will help me get used to the terminology used in ROS ? Do you have any suggestions regarding good Ubuntu tutorials?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-12:
Immersion always helps (same with learning a foreign language).
re: ubuntu tutorials: no, I wouldn't have anything to recommend.
Comment by ros_beginner_09 on 2018-04-12:
Thank you very much
Comment by mohsen on 2018-04-12:
I find myself using bash commands cd & ls (and their variants) the most. You don't have to be a command line expert.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-12:
I agree, and agreed ("you don't have to be a wizard").
But I would say the following topics are definitely also important:

copying, moving, creating, deleting files
(file) permissions
managing processes (top, kill, etc)
text manipulation (grep et al)

Comment by VictorLamoine on 2018-04-12:
I would add CMake to this list, just before starting the ROS tutorials, learning catkin is hard if you don't know CMake.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-04-12:
Yes, good suggestion.
But learn CMake with the understanding that Catkin is nothing special: it's a set of convenience macros/functions that help when building ROS pkgs with CMake.
Comment by ros_beginner_09 on 2018-04-12:
Thank you everyone. I am really glad to see that so many people are here to help.

