Q:

ROS Repositories by Organisation

Hi
I remember seeing a wiki article which broke down ROS packages by organisation. For example several universities had some ROS repositories and there was a link to them.
Was this on this page http://wiki.ros.org/Repositories?
I personally found it useful to get links to repositories by Organisation. Because you could explore what work was being done by a university.
Currently its a bit overwhelming searching through all ROS packages.
I would be happy to help maintain such a page.
Edit:
Ok I see that was the page I remembered. But it wasn't really grouped by organisation it was just a list of packages
However I noticed, I couldn't search for a lot of the packages on the original page for example.
I could not find:
berkeley-ros-pkg
or the mit ros packages.

Originally posted by Sentinal_Bias on ROS Answers with karma: 418 on 2015-12-04
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-12-05:
Personally I use ROS Index. Its db needs to be updated, but other than that it's a pretty handy site. Perhaps we could convince @jbohren to run the update scripts some time?
Comment by jbohren on 2015-12-07:
@gvdhoorn Unfortunately, ROS Index is statically-hosted by GitHub, so I need to run the updates locally, verify, and then push them. I'd like to make the updates more frequent though. I've set up a campaign to try to fund it here (no announcement yet): https://salt.bountysource.com/teams/rosindex

A:

Unfortunately that sort of information is not systematically captured anywhere.
Those repsitory names were a legacy of subversion. Where each organization would have one big repository with lots of subprojects. However as our community has moved toward using git. There's a lot more granular source control per repository. Associating multiple repositories together is not done automatically. It would have to be a manual process.
If anything maybe extending something like ROS Index to support cross referencing by author/maintainer would get you a good amount of grouping.

Originally posted by tfoote with karma: 58457 on 2015-12-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

