Q:

Tool for introspection of launch files

Is there a tool that allows for the introspection of a launch file? If not, is there a demand for one?
I have found that when reading through a new package I have to manually keep track of launch files that include other launch files that include other launch files, etc. Combine the nesting of launch files with the passing of args through the launch files and I start to become very lost.
So, I was wondering if there are tools to help me visualize launch files and perhaps give out some nicely formatted data such as rosrun tf view_frames and tells me what the nodes, params, args, and included files are for the launch file (and even going into the included files and doing the same).
I am aware of the following tools:

 rqt_launch: this doesn't give out the information that I'm looking for, or if it does it makes it hard to find
rxdeveloper: this is for Ubuntu 10.04 and ROS Fuerte so this won't work either

I'm hoping for something to be as simple to run as rosrun introspection-tool inspect somefile.launch and to be given some analysis of somefile.launch.

Originally posted by jayess on ROS Answers with karma: 6155 on 2017-07-27
Post score: 0

A:

For introspection purpose rqt_launchtree might give you some/all features you're looking for.

sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-rqt-launchtree
Afterwards, start rqt (you might need
to pass --force-discover the first
time) and select the plugin from the
Plugins menu. You find it in the
Configuration folder as Launch Tree.  Source:
rqt_launchtree

UPDATE Given that there are multiple GUI packages for launch, including the one @jayess found, I've listed those packages here.

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2017-07-27
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by jayess on 2017-07-27:
Excellent! This is pretty close to what I'm looking for, although the layout is a little overwhelming (at least at first). I'll take some time before accepting this seeing as you were so quick to answer.

