Q:

Laminating 2x4s - brush on the glue?

I laminated some 2x4s for workbench legs, and as you can see by the attached picture, there's a gap between two of the boards. I applied the glue in a zig zag line down the length of the boards and then a line along all 4 edges of the board's face.  I clamped the 3' long glue-up with 5 clamps that I tightened pretty securely. I'm wondering why this gap exists, and what I can do better next time, since I still have to glue up the entire top.  I did glue up all four legs at the same time, so will take the previous advice to do a pair at a time from this point forward.  I don't think this is a problem structurally, but maybe next time I should brush on the glue smoothly?  Maybe I should be planing these flatter to start with? Thanks.

A:

I have several suggestions for gluing this type of slab.

The glue does not spread itself.  Always distribute it evenly before making contact between pieces.  You can do this using a brush or a roller.  I keep a rubber ink roller to distribute glue in large areas and then simply rinse it to clean off the glue for its next use.
Glue on both contact faces will insure maximum contact better than on only one face.
Run the bottom of the boards through the jointer to insure the base of the slab is flat so that the pieces will set flat during and after gluing.
Do not glue and clamp all the pieces at the same time.  These pieces are larger and it will take a lot of pressure and a lot of clamps to make full contact between all the pieces.  For a 2x bench slab like this I would plane the contact faces of two boards, glue them together, let them set, plane the outside faces and then join the pairs together  and then repeat for the 4 piece slabs until done.
Use plenty of clamps (1 per foot would be nice).
Once the slab is as wide as possible for your planer, runt the joined sections through the planer. (This will reduce the amount of hand planing needed to get the top surface flat and eliminate the ridges caused by the milled edges of the original 2xs

