Q:

When using a hand saw, how do I cut a straight line?

When I'm using my hand saw to make various cuts, I find it extremely difficult to make a straight cut. Where am I going wrong, what I am missing that the pros seem to have down?

A:

One obvious solution is not letting the saw do anything that you don't want it to do by using a guide. In the easiest case, the fingers of your left hand are the guide, much like a professional chef would handle a knife, except one normally uses the thumb's nail for that with a saw.
Alternatively, you can simply fasten a straight piece of wood with a screw clamp. Any old block of building wood with an straight, orthogonal cut at the end will do.
Preferrably, your guide should have a small bevel (really small) on the bottom edge to account for the fact that most saws have set teeth.
You can of course also buy guides which will hold your saw in place with rare earth magnets, too (optionally even with a particular angle). Those are much easier to handle and more fancy, but also a bit more expensive than a block of building wood. I use these for cutting minute dovetails sometimes. They do give a better surface than sawing free-handed.
Then of course, using the correct saw makes a huge difference as well. There exist saws for rip cuts (along the grain) and for cross cuts (orthogonal to the grain), and "universal" saws which work equally bad well for either direction.
Also, there exist "western" and "eastern" (japanese) saws, the former cutting on push and requiring condiderably more force, the latter cutting on "pull" and usually being much slimmer (0.2-0.6mm) and having much smaller teeth.
Which saw is the right one for you is a matter of taste, but I very much prefer japanese saws (dozuki whenever possible, kataba if you need to go deeper than the back will allow, ryoba for the more coarse stuff. Ryoba is typically available with rip on one side and cross on the other, which is very nice).
Pulling with two fingers is a lot more comfortable (and I'm inclined to believe much more precise) than working with force. But that's a bit of a matter of taste, too, you'll have to try.
Here is a photo of a guide that costs about 4€ in material (of which 1€ is for the neodym magnets in the little holes) and 5 minutes to manufacture:

Thanks to the magnets, the saw will cling to the guide nicely. You get 100% straight, perpendicular cuts every time. Similar guides are available commercially from Veritas (for about 10-12 times the price).

A:

One very important step in using a hand saw is not to force the saw.  You shouldn't be trying to force the saw through the wood.  The cutting blades are sharp.  Once you have a groove started, ease up on the saw and let the teeth do the work for you.  Sure, it takes a bit longer at first, but you are rewarded with straighter cuts with cleaner ends.
Secondly, when you're using a hand saw, the power from the stroke should be coming from your body stance.  If you're right handed, stand with your left foot further out than your right and lean with your left side into the direction of the cut.  Hold the saw such that your index finger is pointing along the saw in the direction you want to cut.  This will help keep things aligned.

A:

I am no pro but here's my tip.
I mark the four sides and give a 2mm deep cut on the four sides. This way when starting cut on the top the blade tends to stay aligned with the previous cuts.
I've been pretty much successful with this method.
Drawings are better than words:

