Q:

How to find replacement body paint for Record #07 handplane

Question
I'm restoring a Record #07 hand plane (see Images section below). I
plan to use electrolysis to clean the rust out of the nooks and
crannies, and I suspect doing so might also attack the paint, which I
would have to repaint.
So, the topcoat of the paint looks to be Roundel Blue paint made in
England. But I'm struggling to match it closely from the U.S. side. I
would rather not randomly buy paint from overseas (with shipping
costs) that look correct as presented by a website, but when actually
put to use, don't look all that good, leading to having multiple cans
lying around and wasted money and time. I don't mind the shipping cost
really, but want to avoid guesswork if at all possible.
The conclusion I have found from my research (see details below) is
that the type of paint, a British Standard colour BS110 that was
produced by the R. J. Stokes & Co. Ltd. company in England is no
longer in production.
How do I identify a U.S. vendor for this particular paint so I'm
pretty much guaranteed of matching it, both in its color qualities,
but also in its toughness with this particular application?
There is a reference to a "United States the federal spec number for
Record Blue is FS 595 15056. Can anyone confirm that it is an exact,
or close enough, match to the original Roundel blue?
Details
Rather dated (as of 2020) information below:
At https://www.mig-weltding.co.uk/forum/threads/record-blue-paint-code.32682/#post-357433 (Apr 20, 2012) we see:

'Record Blue' is actually a British Standard colour (BS110, I
  believe). It was also known as Roundel Blue around WWII time, as that
  was the colour of the blue in the RAF roundel. Stokes Paint in
  Sheffield certainly do sell it, as I bought some from them about a
  month ago for just the same purpose. I also got some Zinc metal primer
  from Stokes, as it's the recommended first coat.

At https://www.recordhandplanes.com/dating.html (guessing Dec 3, 2009 due to Internet Archive's cache of this page at https://web.archive.org/web/20091203193328/https://www.recordhandplanes.com/dating.html) we see:

PAINT COLOUR
The planes with a painted finish were advertised in catalogues as
  Record Blue but the shade did vary over the years. The spokeshaves
  which had their numbers prefixed by 'A' were made of malleable iron
  and painted red. Cellulose paint was used pre WW2 and subsequently
  stove enamel. The name Record on bench plane lever caps was
  highlighted in orange throughout most of the production years but
  was omitted from the early 1990's. Early block planes prior to WW2
  also had Record highlighted in orange on the lever caps. It is said
  that the choice of the original blue came from the outer ring of The
  Royal Air Force roundel, such as in an archery target.
The supplier and manufacturer of the paint to C & J Hampton was
  R. J. Stokes & Co. Ltd, Sheffield. The original paint colour was
  known as Roundel Blue, then Hamptons Blue and later as Record
  Blue. The reference number for this paint is "BS 110 Roundel
  Blue". The BS refers to British Standard and is one of the colours
  from the very old BS381C range. Originally the paint was a
  traditional solvent bourne stoving enamel. Over the years the paint
  was re-formulated several times to reduce the solvent content and
  work at lower oven temperatures. For the last number of years there
  were two separate paint lines. One was an Epoxy Polyester power
  coating and the other a Waterbound dip coating, both of which were
  still stoved. This virtually eliminated the solvents in the
  paint. R. J. Stokes and Co. Ltd also supplied the orange paint for
  the highlighting of Record on the lever caps of the hand planes and
  block planes. The red paint on the spoke-shaves and the green paint
  for the Calvert Stevens Plane No. CS 88. Needless to say all this
  paint was developed and produced in Sheffield by
R. J. Stokes & Co. Ltd.
I would like to thank Mr James Stokes for all his help and time in getting this information for me.
The R. J. Stokes & Co Ltd web site is www.rjstokes.co.uk
In the United States the federal spec number for Record Blue is FS
  595 15056. This number is a part number for Irwin Tools (US) Not
  sure if this is the later lighter blue colour that was used by
  Record/Irwin Tools.
I would like to Thank Mr Paul Hook, Virginia USA for this information.

As of 2020, the above link now routes to https://www.spencercoatings.co.uk/toll-paint-manufacturing/ which seems like a holding company or something. I contacted them about this particular color yesterday, and they replied with:

I’m afraid this product has been discontinued.

At http://colorserver.net/showcolor.asp?fs=15056 we have what I
believe to be what "FS 595 15056" is referring to but can't be sure.
Images

A:

First, don't do this if you want to maintain the value of the item as a collector's piece. You can set it up and tune it and get it working again, but do not remove paint or repaint. This will make it almost valueless for collectors.
If you just want to completely restore it so it looks nice and you don't care about the value, then read on.
Go to any decent paint store and they can scan the colour and give you a close match, as well as recommend the right paint and techniques. I know for a fact the Colour Your World/Dulux stores do this, for example. I can confirm that they will try to match almost any tint, even in oil enamel.
An ideal application of new paint would involve:

Strip the existing paint off completely
Prep the surface
Prime and "etch" the surface (or perhaps the enamel is "self-etching", in which case this is the priming coat)
Multiple coats of paint

Each one of these steps will be informed by your choice of paint and primer, and your best bet is to get advice from the paint store folks, or the paint manufacturer.
Be sure to check for lead in the paint prior to refinishing. This will inform how aggressive you get with sand-blasting or sanding, and your cleanup.

