Q:

Completely split butcher block

I live in a remote part of the world and ordered this butcher block countertop. It split in transit but no one cares and you can't return anything. How can I fix this best? Dowels? Just glue? No we don't have a hardware and it would take a month to buy any special tool etc. Thanks

A:

It appears that the split is not complete, that is, the wood is still secured at one end. This bodes well for a repair. To keep this aspect of the repair excludes any pins or dowels.
The trickiest part is to ensure that you have injected a good grade of glue as deeply into the crack as possible. Many wood glues are water soluble, but you don't want to thin it too much. Force as much into the tight end of the crack, perhaps wiggling one side up and down relative to the other, to assist in the travel of the glue.
Fill the open end of the crack in a similar manner, of course.
You'll want a flat surface, one as flat as possible, protected from glue squeeze-out for obvious reasons. A waxed paper or plastic sheet will suffice, as the glue will be easily removed from these materials.
After the glue is applied, place the block on the surface, protected top and bottom. Load as much weight as practical evenly on the surface of the block. Additionally, force should be applied laterally to squeeze the crack together. If you lack clamps, consider that ropes wrapped around the block can be twisted to create a clamping force.
It will be a challenging balance between the force applied ninety degrees to the crack and the force trying to lift the center of the board away from the surface. The weight should be distributed closely to the crack, but not concentrated in such a manner as to damage the wood.
Another method of squeezing the crack closed is to engage it with wedges applying force from the sides. This will still require pressure from the top and bottom to prevent a "spring-out" in which the crack splits free and the panels jump into the air! The wedge method requires that the flat surface on which the board is placed be able to accept fixed rails which provide force transfer by wedges to the board.
While searching for a photo to better illustrate the wedge method I've described, I found an even better solution at the lumberjocks web site:

This is far simpler and requires only rope and boards, which should be strong enough to manage the forces and require that the boards be square and true to create a suitably flat result.

