Q:

Efficient paint removal from rough sawn wood

I have some rough sawn timbers in my house that were painted over by the previous owner of the house1.  I believe the timbers are a softer wood like fir as they are more decorative than structural.
The three 4" x 8" x 18' timbers appear to have been painted over with a roller and there's some bits of ceiling spackle on them too.  They at least tried to do a quality job and made sure to paint the little nooks or notches in the wood.  
The single 6" x 8" x 5' timber has a gawd-awful faux stone spray paint applied to it.
Both sets of timbers were stained fairly dark when they were originally put in place.  My goal at this point is to get rid of the paint.  I would be fine with the original dark stain that was in place, but it would be bonus points if I ended up with a lighter look.
I'm 99% certain that the paint is lead-free, but I haven't tested yet to verify.  I will do so prior to commencing work.
I have tried using some citrus based paint remover.  It's worked okay, but has left an orange tint on the test areas.  I'm hesitant to use a chemical based paint remover because of the fumes and the timbers are located inside.
I have also considered grinding via wire brush; sanding with a belt or orbital sander; and planing it with a hand plane.  All of these seem like time intensive operations and I'm a little worried about the mess from grinding or sanding.
What's the most effective way to remove the paint from these timbers?
Or is it a lost cause and I should cover over them instead?
1Yes, I'm consoled by the fact that there's likely a special place in Hades for people like that. < /jk> 

A:

When we stripped the paint in my house growing up we used a heat gun and paint scrapers. It was tedious but fairly effective. 

A:

I think your best bet would be to use dry ice blaster. It is sort of like sand blasting, but the way the dry ice works is it will destroy the paint and evaporate into CO2 before it will harm the sub-structure (meaning the wood). The information on the page says:

Dry ice blasting:

is a non-abrasive, nonflammable and nonconductive cleaning method
is environmentally responsible and contains no secondary contaminants such as solvents or grit media
is clean and approved for use in the food industry
allows most items to be cleaned in place without time-consuming disassembly
can be used without damaging active electrical or mechanical parts or creating fire hazards
can be used to remove production residue, release agents, contaminants, paints, oils and biofilms
can be as gentle as dusting smoke damage from books or as aggressive as removing weld slag from tooling
can be used for many general cleaning applications

This solution should get you a relatively clean surface without destroying the way the board looks underneath. As you suggested, test for lead before you do this for safety's sake.

A:

To completely remove the paint (nooks and crannys included), the wood will eventually have to be planed down. The majority could be removed with a heat gun and scraper, then planed to get the last traces off. A hand scraper could get paint out of nooks and crannys. You might consider just covering the timbers (box them in) with new wood of the type you want and finished the way you want. That would be my choice.

