Q:

Question about the strength of Douglas fir

I need your help. I am a rock climber and I use a hangboard (photo) to train finger strength. It's a wooden board mounted on a 3/4" thick piece of plywood, which is screwed into some studs with some 3" deck screws.

I'd like to build a few rock climbing holds out of wood (like these) 

and mount them around the edges of my hangboard. My plan is to shape the wood, then use wood glue and a couple of screws to hold the pieces onto the plywood. However, I'm worried about the wood breaking and falling on my butt.
That's why I'm seeking your help. I am wondering if douglas fir is a strong enough wood to use for this purpose. I found it much cheaper than oak at home depot, since they only had oak in decorative pieces for stairways. I'm also looking for any general advice for building some holds that won't break on me.
Thank you for any help!

A:

I'm not an expert in wood species, so maybe someone who knows more can weigh in more authoritatively, but I'd be inclined to use a species like Maple for this purpose. I think you'll find that's what the holds in your picture are made from.
Douglas Fir is strong in the sense that it can bear high compressive axial (in line with the grain) loads. It probably does well with axial tension as well. This makes it good for a lot of purposes in construction, which is what the studs at Home Depot are generally used for.
Where it is less fabulous is in tension in the radial direction (sideways to the grain, roughly speaking). So it would have more of a tendency to fail by splitting than something like maple.
Also note that any screws used for affixing the holds should not be of the countersunk variety. You can see in the holds you've pictured that the screw holes are counterbored, meaning the force of the screw head is directed parallel to the screw body (straight in, loosely speaking) rather than at 45 degrees in each direction, which would work to split the wood. So you would use pan head wood screws or perhaps preferably socket head or button-head socket cap screws to attach the holds.

This latter variety would require a tee-nut or similar to be fitted behind the plywood but would provide superior strength.

