Q:

How can I repair the bent legs on my couch?

I could really use some advice on repairing the legs on my couch.
As seen below, the two legs on the left side are tilting (it's not as visible on the other side):

I also snapped a picture of the small "compartment" inside of the couch (between the two legs on the left side), revealing some damage:

The yellow material behind the plywood is some sort of foam.
I don't really know what to do and would appreciate any pointers. If more information is needed I will provide it. I'm sorry if this question isn't appropriate for this site and will adjust it as needed or remove it if required.

A:

Sorry about your couch man. That freakin' sucks.
The amount of work it would take you to get this piece of furniture ship-shape, based on its construction, is probably more than it is worth.
I've had similar problems with a similar quality of construction piece of furniture and opted against a full repair.
That said, if getting a new couch immediately is not an option and you need still need a couch I think you are in luck. I suggest putting it "up on blocks" -- something to git'er'done, until you can replace the couch.
Like the other commenter has said, a repair back to 100% or even 90% is probably going to entail taking the thing apart. As any DIY furniture person can tell you, with new tools and materials even seemingly simple fixes can get pretty expensive pretty fast. But if time and money (emphasis on time) are abundant (emphasis on abundant) then it is probably possible since nothing looks that badly broken.
But I'd guess you're in a similar situation I was in with my couch where you just wanna watch TV and not have a pile of couch parts in the living room for weeks and weeks.
So, here's my thoughts on something down and dirty. Since the seat and the arm rest appear to be made of separate plywood carcasses, you should be able to discretely (read, not totally awful aesthetically) take the load off the failed leg/armrest module. From the looks of it a rough installation of four 2x4s in a box shape attached to the plywood from which the seat is constructed could be sturdy enough for most couch activities as long as whatever screw joint you come up with is snug and stout.
You could probably get away with literally putting it up on blocks, something like two off cuts from a 4x4 could suffice. That's what I ended up doing. But your couch is also much more stylish than mine was so I am guessing the hoopdie-chic option won't fly.
Hope that helps you on your way!

