Q:

I polyed my paintbrush then procrastination left me in a predicament

I was using a nice paintbrush with polyurethane and it seems that I set it down then forgot to clean it. I have since run into it and I have a shiny, relativity tough, paintbrush now. Needless to say I do not value these qualities of my paintbrush.  
I stuck it in a small container of mineral spirits, as it was the only solvent I have available, and left it for a couple of days and for the most part there was no change. Still a tough brush. 
Again I forgot about it and it has since been months.. So there is no doubt the polyurethane has fully cured by now.
Did I doom my paint brush to the garbage or is there something I can still do to save it?

A:

Did I doom my paint brush to the garbage or is there something I can still do to save it?

Salvaging a brush with hardened varnish (or paint) in it is actually quite doable. 
It will require a long soak in strong solvent or a solvent mixture, as in many commercial brush restorers/cleaners and paint strippers. I don't think it matters that much which you use to be honest, so I would get the one that you think you'll get the most future use from. 
Here's an old tip that will allow the bristles to be suspended in liquid for an extended period of time without distorting:

[Source: Paint Brush Care: How To Rescue a Petrified Brush]

A:

I use a solvent called Brush Cleaner. It works well on both oil and acrylic based paints. It is stout stuff so wear gloves and use it in an open area.
You will have to soak it for 24 hours or so but that does the trick for me. Be careful to keep the bristles straight as they soak as they will tend to assume the shape they have been held at. If your brush has dried in an awkward shape even cleaning it may leave you with a brush that isn't fit for use.
This product is effective for general clean up of brushes too and will keep them soft and pliable. It is worth keeping a can around for regular use. It comes in a quart, gallon, and even five-gallon container.  Lowe's in my area sells Crown brand but there are others.

A:

You could try using a chemical stripper to dissolve the varnish, as you would when removing this varnish from a table for refinishing. Be careful; many (but not all) of these formulations are quite toxic.
However,it may be less expensive to replace the brush, especially when the value of your time is considered.
Unless the brush is something of a family heirloom (my grandfather was a housepainter), I'd recommend replacing... and taking this as a lesson in why you want to clean equipment as quickly as possible after you're done with it.

