Q:

How can I minimize warp due to wood movement when gluing up a panel?

I recently built a small 2' x 3' dresser top out of pine. It was within 1/8" flat and level when I glued it up in the garage, but within a few weeks inside it had warped and buckled significantly. What techniques can I use to minimize the chance of this happening in
   my next project?
Details on the project:

I planed several 2x4's down to 6/4 (1.25") thickness, and jointed
them with my router and a straight edge.
I checked the moisture content at the beginning of the project, and all the boards seemed to be a consistent 12% throughout. I even measured the middle with my pin contact moisture meter when I crosscut the boards to the 3' lengths.
I had a business trip partway through the project, and had to leave the unfinished table top sitting in the garage for two weeks. It was completely assembled/glued, but hadn't had stain or poly applied yet. When I got back, the warp had already occurred.
I alternated grain orientation on most boards, but I mistakenly put two next to each other with the convex side of the rings facing upwards. The warp is worst here, but there's still a bit of a wave on other parts of the dresser top.

My thoughts for warp mitigation, and why I haven't tried them yet:

Use narrower boards? (Not much of an option, since I was working with 2x4's to start with.)
Use hardwood? (I'm still a bit of an amateur, and I'd like to perfect my techniques with $10 worth of lumber, rather than wasting money on more expensive stock.)
Use quarter sawn boards? (See above reason.)

So what am I missing? Which, if any, of the above options would be most effective to try first? Are there other techniques I can use to mitigate warp in my future panel glue ups?

A:

Is the humidity in your garage the same as the humidity in the room where the dresser is kept? You can start with a board with 0% moisture content, but regardless of the finish you put on it, it will take in moisture until it matches its environment. I know you can't always do this, but the best way to finish out the seasoning on your lumber is to put it in the room where it will used.
If you're going to use flatsawn framing grade lumber, go through the pile and look for boards that came from the same slab as the pith. (Do not use a board containing the pith itself!) Looking at the board from the end grain, these will have almost straight, vertical grain. These boards are effectively quartersawn.

Image stolen from Wikipedia.

