Q:

3 (or 4?) piece plywood desk over bike trainer

I am trying to build a platform for my laptop that can be positioned over my bike trainer.  I hope to make it out of plywood and have 3 pieces that slot together.  I'm trying to sketch up some designs, but I'm wondering if anyone has advice on making a tall structure like this.  It would end up looking like this:

but, of course, be a lot taller and skinnier.
Edit: Something basically like this design:

but with the legs much taller. I am wondering if this would be stable?  Also, what tools would I need to cut the holes an shape the interlocking parts that sticks up from the legs.
Edit- Results and possible upgrades:
I am thinking about adding support cross bars at the points indicated by the red arrows:

There really isn't a lot spaces where cross bars/supports would fit.  The bike frame and my pedaling legs cover a wide range of areas.  Both supports would take the form below with the bottom support resting on the floor with the opening (cut-outs) facing upwards.

A:

but with the legs much taller. I am wondering if this would be stable? 

No guarantee but I think it could be stable enough if you use thick ply (3/4" / 19mm or better) and if the joints are made very neatly for a good fit. Ideally I'd want to see a brace lower down on the legs but I assume that won't be possible with the bike trainer in the way.

Also, what tools would I need to cut the holes an shape the interlocking parts that sticks up from the legs.

This is the bad news, that you're asking the question probably indicates you don't already own suitable tools for the job and are practised enough in using them. For furniture like this to be firm and stable the slots need to be cut quite accurately, if too tight the pieces simply won't go together. But too loose and it'll wobble.
There are numerous ways of cutting the ply for something like this, and many guides out there will assume a table saw is available! You could do this entirely using hand tools (panel saw, drill and files or sandpaper) but it would be much easier with a jigsaw and a power drill. 
Note: if you're unfamiliar with modern plywood most common stuff (and some supposedly better than this) is not very well made, and there can be numerous voids inside and possibly irregular interior plies. These don't necessarily affect strength in any noticeable way, but it can make the exposed edges uglier than you'd prefer. 
If you look closely at the first image you posted there's a black line near the bottom of the front-right corner, that's a void. Some boards can have many of these unfortunately and you may want to fill them to improve looks. This is not at all hard to do but it's an additional step that many step-by-step guides don't mention.

