Q:

Can breadboard ends hold together a tabletop without glue?

I'm in the planning stages of building a simple workbench, and I'm a bit stuck on the bench top itself.
One of my goals for this bench is to be able to disassemble it as much as possible, to make it easier to get into and out of places where having a bench would be handy. Most of the plans I've seen involve laminating boards together to create the bench surface, which I'd like to avoid as it becomes a rather large block that can't further disassembled.
Would it be feasible to use breadboard ends to hold together a bench top made of 2x4s set on end?
It would look something like this (the picture shows it at 1 ft wide, this may end up being wider):

The weight of the bench top itself would be resting on another couple of 2x4s sitting inside what's basically a large dado cut in the bottom, anchored with through mortise:

This should trap all but the outer two 2x4s, which would be captured by the breadboard ends.
Is this a viable way to hold together a workbench top?

A:

The answer is sort of yes, but there's a lot more to it than that as there's not enough allowance for wood movement. In short, the breadboard ends can't stretch or compress and they'd really need to in order for this to work properly.
Hidden within normal/conventional breadboard ends (when done correctly) is extra room to allow the main field of the top to expand and contract as needed — as you can see from the link above, seasonal variations in humidity result in changes to the wood's moisture content, leading to changes in width. The wetter the wood the wider the top, the drier the wood the narrower the top. 
You can minimise this seasonal variation in certain ways, by selecting boards with quarter-sawn or rift-sawn grain* and by working in woods that move less than others. But unfortunately 2x material is not generally wood that moves relatively little.
So I think you need to ditch the idea of the breadboard ends.
What to do instead
Essentially all you're looking to do here is hold the two outermost boards down so they can't fall off or be lifted out of place when the table is in use, and there are other ways of doing this, all simpler in fact. And even better news, the simplest involves no extra work. 
All you need to do is fix four flat expansion plates, or figure-eight fasteners, to the underside of two of the 2x4s which are then screwed to the outside two boards. This will securely hold them down while allowing them to move in or out as needed.

*This doesn't mean only how the wood was cut, it can just mean that the grain (seen from the ends) is vertical or nearly so. To put it another way, you orient the tangential grain vertically.

