Q:

How can I achieve a raw, unfinished look to my project while protecting it from water and physical abuse?

I am creating an oak table top that will undoubtedly be exposed to a certain level of physical abuse (e.g., plates sliding across the surface) and water (e.g., glasses placed without a coaster, spills).
Is it possible to finish this wood in a way that will protect it from these elements, while still providing a raw, unfinished look?
I've seen tables in the wild that have the appearance I'm after and are exposed to a lot of abuse. For instance, the tables of this local restaurant appear almost unfinished, and water doesn't bead as if a natural oil has been applied, yet there are no water stains:

A:

To keep the surface appearing as raw as possible and protect against water, I would suggest mineral oil. It will not prevent any mechanical abrasion, but will look natural and non-glossy without altering the sheen (much).

A:

Another option to consider is wax. In this case, butcher block paste wax would be a traditional option (which is edible/non-toxic, like the wax on apples). It has similar constraints as the aforementioned mineral oil. Paste waxes also come in various tints which leave an unfinished look but allow some slight modification to color of the table.

A:

Based on your comment (i.e., you're more interested in the look than the feel), it'd suggest using a matte finish. Rich Lawrence suggested a water-based poly, but I'd actually go for an oil-based poly (varnish). Water-based poly's aren't very scratch resistant (I actually finished my oak table with a water-based and had to replace it within a few months). 
A matte finish will reduce the reflectivity you'd otherwise get from a glossy finish, will protect the wood moreso than an oil (tung oil, boiled linseed oil, mineral oil, etc), and (once it has cured) is food-safe. Depending on how scuffed the surface is, you might have to apply using a spray gun. I once tried to finish reclaimed wood with a brush and got splinters of wood in my brush, so watch out for that. 
Below is an example of a box I built for my wife's photo business. The inside was planed, so it has a smooth surface. The edges and the outside, however, were left rough and covered with a matte varnish. 

