Q:

Why does my sliding miter saw go slanted down the line instead of straight?

I have a Chicago Electric 12” compound sliding miter saw, model 98194. Instead of sliding straight, it slants.
It veers by about 1/16” going from back to front. It cuts slanted.
The fence is square with the blade. The miter angle is 0 degrees, as is the bevel.
The blade is new, a 12” Diablo. I’ve tightened it. It is not loose.
Here are images showing the blade in its pushed back position and its pulled-forward position: https://imgur.com/a/37mupFK

A:

If I understand correctly, the gap to one edge of the kerf plate is larger when the blade is slid all the way forward than it is when it's slid all the way back. If that's a correct understanding, then I'd say that the slides on the saw aren't perpendicular to the fence or that the motor is, somehow, not mounted square on the carriage. Generally, this doesn't seem to be a setting that's fixable. I would be curious to know if the blade is still at 90° to the fence when it's slid all the way toward you (use a larger square to test this).
I would suggest that this is a manufacturing defect and that, unfortunately, you've gotten what you paid for*. If it's still within 90 days of purchase, take it back to Harbor Freight, explain the issue, and it's very likely they'll go get a replacement from stock and give you a new one. If it's beyond 90 days, the warranty is up, and you may as well fiddle with it to see if you can get the slide mechanism adjusted.
No, I don't have a clue how you'd do that. I've not had to do that with either of the DeWalt miter saws I own, nor with my FIL's Rigid miter saw. At this point, though, the saw is, essentially, useless for making accurate cross-cuts (it's sole purpose in life), so starting the disassembly process isn't going to leave it any more broken than it already is.

*This isn't a slam on Harbor Freight in general. I'm a big fan of theirs and have had great success with many of their products. I don't, though, buy power tools from them unless it's for a very specific purpose. If I do and the tool lasts through the project I bought it for, I'm very happy. If it lasts longer than that, I'm ecstatic! It's a matter of realizing what you're buying and being willing to take the associated risks.
I have had a couple of their hand tools fail on me. I had absolutely zero questions when I returned them - they directed me to pick up a new one off the shelf, they scanned some barcodes, punched buttons on their register, gave me a new receipt and told me to have a good day. I'd imagine the return process on the saw will be similar if it's within the warranty period.

