Q:

DIY Desk - Pipe Z-Frame dimensions issue

Hopefully this is the right exchange for this.
Recently I started a DIY desk project in which my goal was to build a ~8ft long desk that could support a large load (~150-200lbs).
This desk would serve mainly as a place to setup all of my computers for gaming as well as double as an office space for work.
I bought an unfinished solid birch butcher block counter top from Home Depot measuring 98" x 25" x 1.5"
I finished this by hand sanding with 220 grit and applying three coats of Minwax wipe on water based poly, sanding in between coats 1 and 2.
It came out perfectly and I was quite pleased given it was my first time doing anything like this.

My next step was to find a decent frame that could hold the weight and also support the middle of the table since I had concerns it might sag over time and a 5th leg kind of felt odd.
I decided to take a gamble and buy a Simplified Building Z-Frame Table Kit. My thoughts here were that it could support the center and obviously handle a ton of weight. Being galvanized pipe I also figured I should be fine using it outside if I ever wanted to replace the table top and convert it to an outside table in the future.
When I ordered this kit I provided the dimensions requested and defined a height at 29" (ideal for my physical height)

The kit came in and was easy to assemble, however I am now stuck as it appears the legs don't actually align properly to the corners

I can't seem to figure it out given that the documentation matches what I have, but images they provide have a perspective that show the legs aligned to the corners.
I have two questions really:

If I were to fasten this right where it is, will I have any sort of structural/balance issues?
Is there something I am missing regarding this frame kit or a Z-Frame in general that might be impacting my ability to align these? I have not reached out to Simplified Building yet, but visibly its not obvious to me that there is a pipe length issue

Any help is appreciated!
UPDATE
I received a response from Simplified Building, it turns out that the dimensions of my table break their formula for the Z-Frame.
They also described what was mentioned by @Graphus: move the depth legs further down the length pipe. It turns out the width of my table would require the fittings to overlap around 1.5".

They suggested that I convert this to an H-Frame and sent me new pipe. This also had the added benefit of providing more leg space, something I didn't think about, but some folks mentioned might become an issue, so I lucked out there!

A:

If I were to fasten this right where it is, will I have any sort of structural/balance issues?

Nope. If the table were much smaller it might, but the wide stance of your table means even the two legs well in from the corners aren't going to impact stability in any way you'd notice.

Is there something I am missing regarding this frame kit or a Z-Frame in general that might be impacting my ability to align these?

It's not clear if the position of any of the connectors is variable or fixed. If it is variable you could try moving T-connector for the "outrigger" legs' right out as far as they will go on the long pipe. A quick back-of-an-envelope sketch suggests to me that this won't quite do enough, but this sort of thing is hard to do visualise without actually drawing it accurately. So if there is adjustability doing this is worth a try.

You didn't ask about this but I wanted to include a note on it.

My next step was to find a decent frame that could hold the weight and also support the middle of the table since I had concerns it might sag over time and a 5th leg kind of felt odd.

For future reference, Woodbin's The Sagulator will be your friend.
Do realise this is based on textbook values (and all wood varies, all the time) but the numbers it provides are a very useful starting point. Err on the side of caution and you're unlikely to run into a problem.
Thick glued-up workbench material like this, as it's made from hardwood and has all those glue joints, isn't anything that can be directly predicted by software because even more than a single-piece board no two pieces are going to be quite alike. But in practice you'll find panels like this are really amazingly stiff, and very resistant to deflecting even with quite a sizeable centre-only load.

