Q:

How can I make a sliding interior 'barn' door?

I want to make a door similar to this:  

What kind of wood would you recommend and what would be the best way to build it?
I am guessing it would need to be reinforced from the back?

A:

Generally-speaking, you can use whatever type of wood and finish appeal to you.
Depending on your application, you may want the door to be either lighter or heavier. If the door is closing off a movie room, you may want a more solid, thicker, heavier door to better absorb and deaden the sound. Of course, if you really want to block sound, you'll probably also want to seal off gaps around the doorway between the wall and the door.
If the door is simply closing off the kitchen from the hallway and you will need to frequently open and close it but preventing sound from passing through is not a major concern, you may prefer some more lightweight type of construction.
The metal straps in your picture may be critical to the door's structure, but it's highly likely they are only aesthetic. Ideally you would drill oval horizontal holes in the faux metal straps, cover the holes with washers, and avoid overtightening the screws. This will allow the wood to expand and contract across the width of the door (across the grain, as pictured) as the humidity changes with the seasons.
Solid wood
You can assemble the door panel as you would any typical panel or tabletop, then install the faux metal straps for visual enhancement.
If you use solid wood, quartersawn lumber will be less prone to warping. If you prefer the appearance of flatsawn/plainsawn lumber, be sure to alternate the end grain as discussed in https://woodworking.stackexchange.com/a/241/49.
Plywood/MDF
You could build the door using plywood or MDF (or even MDF-core plywood), using veneers that give the appearance of a solid wood panel, if preferred. If you use plywood, be sure to use a high-quality, many-ply type of plywood such as Baltic birch.
Torsion box
As keshlam noted in a comment on your question, you could also build a hollow-core door, more generally described as a torsion box. This involves building a flat internal skeleton, with thinner outer "skins."

