Q:

Arm for heavy TV

I have a TV here which weighs around 15 kg. It fits perfectly into the alcove next to my chimney breast, but that's not a convenient viewing angle. So what I want to do is build an arm which attaches to the wall and can swing out and let me use it, and also swing right back in to allow the TV screen to tuck back out of the way. 
So I designed this thing here. It's essentially two frames inside eachother. The inner frame is designed to transfer the weight of the TV to the left-hand side, which is attached by hinges to the outermost frame. That's why the bottom-most part of the innermost frame is at that angle. I believe that will transfer the weight in the expected direction. 
Then the outer frame is the same, but in reverse. It transfers the weight from the left-hand side to the right-hand side, where it will attach in the same way, by hinges, to a post that's firmly bolted to the wall.

I put half dovetailed lap joints in all corners except the one with an acute angle. That's because that joint will experience more of a compressive force, so a bridle joint will probably fit okay there. And I think they're easier to cut so that's why I chose it. And the halfdovetaillapjoints are for joints which I think will be more pulled apart at, than pushed together by the weight of the TV. The idea is to glue and clamp these joints. I possibly will not need to use screws.
The whole thing will be made from 1.5"x1.5" pine.
Is this design going to work as I think it will? That is, will the weight be transferred in the manner that I expect?

A:

There are several challenges with your design.  

Since you do not give dimensions for the frame,  I will assume it is fairly large.  The greater the width the more rotational force will be applied the back frame at the left side where the TV frame mounts to the back frame.  This load will have a tendency to cause the back frame to lower at the left.  To counter this force you will need to apply cross braces to the back frame to keep the corners square.  These cross braces will prevent the TV frame from nesting inside the back frame.
As The TV is extended out from the wall, the TV frame will be at an angle to the back frame. This may cause rotational torque which must be resisted by the back frame.  The 1.5"deep members will not be deep enough (front to back) to resist this force.  The loads you are designing for are not merely the weight of the TV.  The weight is magnified by the distance of the back frame width.  Think of the mechanical advantage gained from a lever and fulcrum. 
I am not sure how the half dovetail joints you show will be strong enough to resist the forces. Dovetails work fine for drawer assemblies, but remember there are many dovetails in a box joint.  Here you only have one and the tails may not be long enough to avoid wood failure in sheer along the length of the wood in the tail.

I'm sorry to say that there are no simple rules for sizing the members of this frame assembly.  My first instinct would be to use a manufactured metal assembly designed to mount a TV rather than experimenting with a makeshift wood project.

