Q:

Stanley Bailey frog adjustment problem

I recently bought a vintage Stanley Bailey No. 4 (Type 19 I think, I am new these tools) and after lapping sole and frog surface and putting it back together I found that the iron is skewed and I have to put the lateral adjustment lever almost completely to the right to get even shavings.
Whatever I try to align the frog, either the iron is skewed vertically or not perpendicular to the throat. From the top it looks fine:

But when I put in the iron (lateral adjustment lever in the middle) it looks like this from below:

When I look at the bottom areas where the frog rests on the sole, they seem asymmetrical (I filed one of the inner edges, because I thought it was stuck on some paint). I added lines to make it more obvious.

And the side which has the smaller contact area in the picture above also seems to be fatter if I look on them from the front:

The iron is pretty square and flat. I also tried an different cutting iron from a No. 5 and the problem is the same.
Am doing something wrong or is this a defect of manufacturing? Is that possible or even common for Stanley Bailey planes (of some era)? And if so, how can I fix it? Should I try to file it down? I guess I would have to correct the upper contact area, too?

A:

To update on what I finally did:
I worked up my courage to file the frog and it came out very good! ;-) 
First I put some washers under the contact areas of the frog on one side to find out how much the difference is. 

I installed everything with the washers in place and it worked nicely on the first try. I could leave the lateral adjustment lever in the middle [i]and[/i] get even shavings. 
I measured the thickness of the washers (1 mm) and made marks on the side of the frog accordingly with a knife and a calliper. The I filed it down to the marks and tried to get it as flat as possible (and everything in the same plane). I had to sand the upper part on a granite tile, because I was not able to do it with the file. I test-fitted it occasionally.
After I could feel no more wobble, I put everything back together and: ta-da! It fits great and I can leave the lever almost exactly in the middle. I am much happier now. ;-)

