Q:

What glue suits restoring this old (French?) chair?

I have this old chair, French I believe, for a restoration project.
It's a bit rickety so I'd like to take it apart, clean up the dowels and glue surfaces and re-glue before upholstering.
The original wood is cracked so I was going to clamp and glue with modern waterproof wood glue, before reassembling with the same.

A:

What glue suits restoring this old (French?) chair?

Take your pick. In addition to there being some personal preference involved naturally, different jobs may require specific adhesives.
Although some people — mostly 'armchair theorists' and weekend warriors — insist that only animal-sourced glues should be used to repair antiques1, the simple fact is that certain jobs call for other glues to be employed.
Arguably the best example is the (not uncommon) situation where you need gap filling. Except in limited circumstances this can't be done strongly using protein glue (and neither PVA nor foaming polyurethane are appropriate either). The adhesive usually chosen for gap-filling repairs is epoxy, and it is widely used for this purpose.
It's not hard to envisage a situation where the repairs needed to an old chair lead to three adhesives being used.

Cracks along the grain that occurred due to the levering forces from use while the chair was wobbly from loose joints are glued using PVA or foaming polyurethane2.
To re-glue the joints that are structurally sound but the glue has failed you could use hide glue to re-glue.
One leg/frame joint broke while someone was in the chair, resulting in a bad break and there is now some missing wood, that is glued with epoxy.

1 The two main reasons given are 1) it's reversible, and 2) it's traditional. Neither of those points are wrong, but this looks at the issue much too shallowly — just to give one example, there was more than one kind of traditional adhesive, and multiple types and grades of animal-derived glue, some of which are better suited to specific applications.
2 Because either works excellently as a thin-film adhesive, producing invisible joins that are stronger than the wood around them if done well. Additionally these repairs are of course intended to be permanent, so by not using hide glue any future restoration where structural joints need to be separated and re-glued again, any use of heat/moisture/vinegar won't equally effect the crack repairs.

