Q:

Most durable foodsafe finish to highlight chatoyancy

My favorite lumberyard (where I get most of my bowl blanks) specializes in curly/fiddleback/birdseye maple, all of which I love for their holographic/chatoyant qualities.
Because I'm a beginner, I've been finishing everything first with mineral oil, then with beeswax. I like these because they're organic, foodsafe, and easy to apply.
However, as I revisit my oldest works (seeing them, for example, in a friend's house), I'm struck by how badly the finish ages - they become dull, start showing scratches easily, and generally lose their luster. Especially sad with the great figure that comes from curly maple!
What's your recommendation for a durable, foodsafe finish that will help my bowls retain their chatoyancy for as long as possible? (It would be great if the end-user could refresh the finish themselves, as they can with butcher-block finish, etc, but I find my recipients rarely do this).
Thanks!

A:

I have been using carnauba wax to finish my turning projects recently.  It's pretty durable and is food-safe right away.  I've been turning bowls from maple butcher block, it shows off the chatoyancy nicely.
I apply Carnuba wax in a two-step process.

After the pieces is finished and sanded smooth, turn up the speed on the lathe and hold a stick of solid wax (I bought mine at Woodcraft) against the piece until I can see that there's at least a skim of wax over the whole surface.
Take a small square of some kind of sturdy cloth and press it firmly onto the spinning piece.  I use a piece of an old dish towel folded once.  Without folding, it's too thin, and the cloth gets too hot to hold.  It it's too thick, then it tends to slip a bit or I might not be able to follow the contours very well.  After a second or so, the wax melts and the wood changes color as it "wets".  Slowly move the cloth along the surface until all of the wax has melted in.

It's a pretty simple process, and I think it smells nice, too.

A:

As covered in a number of previous Answers, example, all finishes can likely be considered food-safe once fully cured as there's no evidence to the contrary.
The best finish hands down, for highlighting chatoyancy is an oil, and chief among them is boiled linseed oil1. A straight oil finish is not a very durable one as commonly applied today (virtually nobody has the time or inclination to do it the old way) and even when many many layers are applied over a long period it's still not necessarily that durable2, but what it needs to withstand hasn't been specified. 
Over this you'd use a hard finish, shellac would be OK and so would lacquer, but if outright durability is important oil-based polyurethane would probably be your best bet if you can't use a two-pack product with your current setup. 
So in summary, oil first and then something else. Note that depending on what you use you may need to wait more or less for the oil to cure — lacquer for example is sensitive to uncured oil underneath the lacquer film, shellac and oil-based poly much less so (it's perhaps not best practice but both can be successfully applied to freshly oiled wood).

1 Raw linseed oil works just as well but it 'dries' far too slowly to be of much practical use these days. 
2 Oil finishes tend to remain permanently sensitive to water, and even blended finishes like "Danish oil" (which are enhanced by the inclusion of some varnish) are still not strictly waterproof. This means that for a fruit bowl for example they're not ideal as permanent staining will almost certainly result from weeping fruits, however it is very difficult to protect against this entirely.

