Q:

How to keep a portable sawmill blade from jumping the roller guides

I have a Grizzly portable sawmill, which I've owned for about 3 years.
 It's a piece of shit, but it's what I have. It requires constant maintenance and adjustments to just make it work. I hate working with it, but now and then a really nice log comes along, and I want to have the option of getting it sawn just the way I want it. Otherwise, I'd sell it for scrap metal. With that off my chest, here's my question:
The blade keeps falling off, and I can't figure why. I have a 17" bandsaw which I've owned forever, and I'm used to adjusting it so that the blade is tight and stable. But I just can't figure out how to stop the blade on the sawmill from jumping the roller guides -- although I don't know if that's the source of the problem: I just see the blade skip the roller guides, but it could be that it fell off the wheels first. The roller guides are already adjusted as far down as I can make them. The blade is also tight, and I am spraying it with a water hose to keep it lubricated and cool. The blade jumps the roller guides with all types of logs: soft and hardwood, thin and wide, etc. The blade is new. I'm definitely not pushing on it too hard. Sometimes I can get a log or two with no problems, then the next log the blade falls halfway on every pass.
I feel like I'm missing something simple and feel stupid for even asking, but does anybody know what are the common causes for a sawmill to do this (or band saw, as the sawmill is just a horizontal bandsaw I guess)? Any suggestions appreciated.

A:

I'm going to assume the log moving while cutting isn't an issue.
The blade should stay on the wheels be able to make cuts without any guides.
Make sure the wheels run true. Clamp an object to the frame and position a fixed point near the wheel and spin the wheel, you should not be able to perceive any wobble in the wheel as it spins. Check the inside tread where the tires bear on as well. The issue might be some compacted sawdust in there that creates a bump.
Check the wheel tires/v-belt (parts 329v3 and 408v2 in the manual) to ensure they have an adequate crown. Hold a short straight-edge to the bearing surface and ensure there is a ridge in the middle. They might be installed inside out, check for that.
On page 43 and 44 of the manual you will find how to adjust the wheel positions in all directions using the bolts on the back of the wheel shafts. Use a long straight-edge to validate the coplanar adjustment and make sure the tracking is correct while the blade is under tension and with the guides not touching the blade. If you intentionally put on the blade crooked (within reason) it should recenter itself within a few rotations of the wheels.
Once the blade is tracking correctly then you can adjust the guides as described by the manual.
Make sure to properly lock the adjustment bolts as the vibration of the motor and cutting will want to make them loosen up over time and misalign the tracking.

