Q:

Does a route table sag if you do not leave the router attached to it?

I am slowly putting together an absolute beginner workshop (too much to call it so) without trying to invest too much money since I am doing woodworking for fun and some practical needs around the house. The scope of my work will be some floor to ceiling custom shelves, picture frames, small boxes, smaller shelves, a shoe box and some other things that will not be big in size. Probably the shelves will be the only big thing that I will ever build. I am also planning to build a deck and a pergola but these are not really woodworking.
Having the above said I am considering building a router table and I have questions around choosing the right material for the table top. 
My question is this: would a router table top sag if the router will not be permanently attached to it ?
I am considering using high density MDF for the top. 
I have seen builds where MDF was used and then laminate applied to it. While I might consider this I have doubts regarding my ability to obtain an absolutely plane surface after applying the laminate. 
I would be OK to have to build another table top every two or three years (I do not expect my projects to take me longer than that)
One more question: if I go the laminate way, do I apply the laminate before or after I cut my slots for my t-tracks, the router insert opening and the miter slot ?

A:

My question is this: would a router table top sag if the router will not be permanently attached to it ? 

The typical router that you'll mount to the underside of a router table is a fairly significant weight, so if you think about it there's less tendency for the surface to sag with the router not in place than with. 
Sagging is a function of the stiffness of a material/assembly and the weight applied to it, with the router not installed it would only be the top's own weight that would be pulling downwards. And this would only be with the table in its horizontal position. There is zero tendency for it to sag if the table is stored with the surface vertical or nearly so.

One more question: if I go the laminate way, do I apply the laminate before or after I cut my slots for my t-tracs, the router insert opening and the miter slot ?

Before. 
One thing that may not have been clear from your reading, laminates applied to router tables are largely to provide a hard-wearing, low-friction surface but otherwise may not add anything of note so you shouldn't feel at all bad about just leaving this out of a design. Particularly if using one of the stronger MDFs as the substrate. 
Just wipe on a few coats of varnish, maybe give the top a waxing once a year with paste wax and the surface will be more than tough enough for use, and plenty slippery enough.

