Q:

Sealant recommendation for pen-holding box

I am about to start assembling a box

to stow away items that otherwise overrun a desk.

The box arrives in small pieces.

Before assembling, I'd like to apply some sealant so that it stays clean for some time, even if an uncovered pen here or there touches the wood.
I'm proceeding with elimination. The first three options are out:

Linseed oil: I've found out that it produces a rather unpleasant smell that lasts for months.
Tung oil: No experience, but the smell reportedly lingers.
(Water-based) polyurethane: would be ideal, but it's overkill for this simple project. Every little piece would have to be held somehow while I brush poly on. Polyurethane works better on large surfaces: table tops, floors, ...

The remaining options are:

Mixture of (extra-virgin?) olive oil + fresh lemon (ratio 2:1). This seems a bit arcane. Might that be the right solution for this project?
Shellac in crystals, to be dissolved in alcohol. If a felt pen is left open against the wall, will shellac really stop the wood absorbing all the ink?
Danish oil: I know too little about it. Is that an easy-to-use sealant?

Color-wise, I'm happy if it gets a yellow patina right away from the oil, or over time. Just so long as it doesn't get stained with dirt too soon.
I'm aware there are already far too many questions here and a huge amount of information on various sites advising on the merits of one oil/sealant or another.
Which sealant would you use for this particular project?

A:

Before assembling, I'd like to apply some sealant so that it stays clean for some time

That's not a good approach. It does sometimes make sense to finish pieces before assembly, especially when parts will be hard to reach afterward. The down side is that because glue doesn't bond well to most finishes, so when pre-finishing you need to mask off all the areas the will receive glue. That'd take far more time than it's worth for such a small project. You'll be better off assembling at least the major components of the box, such as the main box and the top trays, and then applying finish. You could really assemble the whole thing first since any parts that will be unreachable afterward will also be hard to see.

Linseed oil: I've found out that it produces a rather unpleasant smell that lasts for months.

That's true if you're talking about raw linseed oil, but the linseed oil that people use most often for finishing is treated to significantly speed up the polymerization (drying) process. They used to treat it by actually boiling the oil, but modern versions are usually treated with chemicals instead. Even so, the stuff is still known as "boiled linseed oil" or "BLO" for short, and it's a good option because it's easy to apply, looks good, and offers at least some protection.

(Water-based) polyurethane: would be ideal, but it's overkill for this simple project.

Of the finishes you mentioned, polyurethane probably provides the most protection against markers and such. It's relatively cheap, available in a range of finishes from matte to glossy, and it can be applied several ways. The easiest way would be to spray it from a can.

Mixture of (extra-virgin?) olive oil + fresh lemon (ratio 2:1).

Some people swear by olive oil as a wood finish, but I'd avoid it especially for something like a storage box. Olive oil doesn't polymerize into a hard surface the way that "drying" oils like linseed oil do, and the concern is that the oil in the wood could eventually turn rancid and smelly. I'd avoid this.

Shellac in crystals, to be dissolved in alcohol.

There are a lot of good things about shellac, but preparing it isn't one of them. Dissolving the flakes takes a long time, and after you've done that you may need to let the wax settle out (unless you buy dewaxed flakes). That's a lot of work for just the small amount you'll need for this project, and once prepared shellac only keeps for a relatively short time. Even the flakes eventually go bad. You'll be better off buying a small can of prepared shellac. It's even available in spray cans, which would make application very quick. Shellac isn't impervious to markers to the degree you're probably hoping for, though.

Danish oil: I know too little about it. Is that an easy-to-use sealant?

Danish oil is usually just another name for polymerized linseed oil or sometimes tung oil, so see above. It dries to a hard film that gives some protection and looks nice.

Danish oil: I know too little about it. Is that an easy-to-use sealant?

I'd use spray on water-based polyurethane because it's quick and easy to use, cleans up easily, and provides the most protection of the solutions under consideration. If you're not into spray cans, most of the spray products are available in liquid form for brushing or wiping on. Minwax Polycrylic is one example.
If polyurethane is unacceptable for some reason, then I'd probably choose BLO or shellac. Both are easy to use. Tried & True is one brand of polymerized linseed oil that's easy to use, goes a long way (a small can will last through many small projects like this one), looks great, and is very safe.

