Q:

Is there a way to extend the length of a dowel blade?

I recently purchased a dowel blade from a hardware store, and it won't cut through a 2x4. Is there anything I can do to cut dowels from the 2x4 for mushroom cultivation?

A:

TL;DR
Return or sell the 2x4, "drill bit" / "dowel blade" and/or skip lunch and use the money to buy a pack of 1000 ready-made dowels online.

Is there a way to extend the length of a dowel blade?

I am not familiar with "dowel blades". 
There are blades for dowel-cutting saws which are the same as flush-cutting saws. These are for cutting through the protruding ends of dowels. 

I don't see how you can use these for manufacturing dowels from a 2x4.
To cut up a softwood 2x4, I would use a regular full-sized handsaw of the sort you can buy for the price of a hamburger meal at McDonalds. It would be extremely tedious to do this by hand to create 1000 typical-sized dowels though.

i want to use the drill bit

Plug Cutters
If you are using a plug cutter, there is no way to extend the depth they can cut to

I've never seen one that could cut all the way through a 2x4. Obviously, with a table saw you could rip the 2x4 into thinner planks to suit a plug cutter.

Is there anything I can do to cut dowels from the 2x4

Making dowels
I would use a table saw to rip the 2x4 down to square rods with width equal to the desired dowel diameter, saw to length then hammer those pieces through a series of dowel plates

See also Paul Sellers' Poor-man's dowel maker
Ready made dowels
You can buy dowels online in fairly large quanities. In my part of the world they are typically beech wood.
A 100 pack of 8x30 dowels might cost you the price of a cup of coffee at Starbucks.
or you can buy 1000 from eBay for not much more

You can buy longer dowels in the form of 1m or 1 yard rods and cut them to whatever size you need using a hand saw or whatever cutting tools you have.

 100 4x600mm dowels
It may be worth keeping the 2x4 for some other purpose and buying ready-made dowels.

for mushroom cultivation?

Mushrooms
Do mushrooms really need circular cross-section dowels?
I'm no expert but I guess they just need small chunks of hardwood?
Maybe you could attack the 2x4 with a regular hand-saw and axe, hachet or chisel?

