Q:

HPLV vs HVLP dust collector

I currently have a HPLV dust extractor, which has a low rate 183m3/hr (the bin style dust collector) - it does a great job, but tools at the end of the duct system get a drop in suction  (which is understandable).  I want to upgrade to something with more suction  - so I started looking at a dust connector with more suction... I assumed the models with 1150m3/hr would do the trick, but reading up, these are apparently HVLP collectors and they don't deal with dust well.
I'm assuming I'm missing some key information here, like flow != pressure. But I'd like to understand why upgrading to something with more flow won't give me better suction, or provide extraction of fine dust.

A:

A shop vac has high pressure (lots of suction) but it has a low volume so you do need to be fairly close like hooking it to your sander directly (and they have the extra problem of clogging quickly too).  
I have a large dust collector in my shop and it has 2300 CFM, (3908m3/hr) and has a 1 Micron filter.  It does a great job at collecting chips and an ok job at dust, I have a hood I use when using a hand sander to help reduce what gets sent into the air, However, you need to be pretty close to the hood.  It also works best with 4" (or larger) hose going to all tools.
To alleviate the airborn dust (and the stuff that is most dangerous to your health over the long term) I have a ceiling mounted dust filter which is designed to move a lot of air through the filter but it is for stuff that floats in the air, the stuff you can breath in.  Ultimately I think you need both systems to keep the shop 'clean'.
If you have a one person shop, having gates to close off tools that aren't being used will also help put more airflow to the tools at the end of the line.
Flow != Pressure TRUE
flow is a measure of volume, over time, pressure is the speed of the flow.
A Garden hose has a low pressure and a moderate flow, hook it up to a pressure washer and you the volume or flow of the hose can more than keep up with the washer, but the pressure is MUCH higher mostly because it is being forced through a much smaller opening. 
The hose is more efficient at washing lots of mud off the driveway, but the pressure washer is better at cleaning the stuck on stuff.  While a fire hose has a bit of pressure, what is much more important is the total volume of water being sent to the fire.  
Both have their uses and are ideal for different applications.  I recommend HV for a decent sized work shop, and I also recommend an air filter for any shop no matter the kind of vacuum system you have to keep things clean.

