Q:

What kind of fire extinguisher should I have in the shop?

Apologies if this is off topic. I realize it's only tangentially-related to woodworking.
In my 12' x 16' workshop, I have a lot of lumber, projects in mid-construction, tools, a computer and accessories, chemicals (fiberglass resin is probably the nastiest one), and a ton of electrical outlets. 
What sort of fire extinguisher should I get that, if used in this small space, won't destroy everything? I try to keep things clean, but there's inevitably sawdust and what-not on the floor. 
Edit
I wholeheartedly agree with the "get out and stay out" comments: sticking around to try and put out a significant fire to save some tools and equipment is not smart. However, when you're dealing with something small that has either just started, or clearly will - smoldering in a pile of scrap or sawdust or instance - it would be nice to have an extinguisher to at least try and put it out before things get out of control, rather than throwing the baby out with the bathwater, so to speak. I have kids - I'll err on the side of getting to build a new shop rather than using up my life insurance to save a PC and a bunch of saws.

A:

There are certainly oils and other flammable liquids, plus possible electrical malfunction, so I would indeed suggest an ABC, preferably a larger one. Remember that you always aim an extinguisher at the base of a fire, not at the flames.
However, it's important to note: Unless the fire is one you are sure you can put out quickly and easily, the most important role for a fire extinguisher may be to help you get to safety.
Things are replaceable. You aren't. In case of fire, save people first.
Also, if you are asking this question: Do you have a first aid kit in the shop, openable with one hand, preferably where you can reach it even if you can't stand up? Ditto for phone? Are you keeping volatiles tightly sealed and preferably in a metal cabinet where a fire would have some chance of smothering itself? Are you keeping the workshop clear of sawdust, tripping hazards, and the like? Do you have an air filter and dust collection if you are producing sawdust, ventilation if you are producing fumes? Fire may not be the biggest hazard!

A:

You're probably OK with a typical 'multi-purpose' type ABC extinguisher, as that will handle most of the fires you would see in a typical woodshop. You could probably get away with just a type A (for burning solids), but type ABC are so ubiquitous that it may be more expensive for the single purpose extinguisher. 

if used in this small space, won't destroy everything?

I kind of question this mentality, though. Yes, fire extinguishers are for dealing with small fires before they get out of hand and you want to limit damage from the extinguisher itself, but the primary goal of a fire extinguisher should be to extinguish the fire. Damage to surroundings is a secondary concern, since if the fire is not controlled, there will be (much) more damage to your lumber, projects, shop, and any attached or nearby structures like a house. Put out the fire first.

A:

Blowing ash around with a CO2 extinguisher will make everything in the room dirty but most things can be cleaned of ash. That would be good for electricals. For wood, water or foam would be better (half a large CO2 extinguisher does very little for smouldering wood that can be dealt with by a cup of water). Powder is supposed to spread all round the room as well and is harder to get rid of; most types are corrosive to metals. Foam beats water as you've got flammable liquids. 
An interesting new option is water mist (ABCF): the fine droplets do not cause flammable liquids to splash or float, and the gaps between drops mean that they're rated to 1000V if you're at least a metre away. I've never seen one in use though. 
More important than an extinguisher is keeping your way out clear at all times. Being able to kill the power (emergency stop switch) so you can use water on a wood+tool fire seems like a good idea and would also serve in other emergencies. 

