Q:

Trouble with sharp turns on scroll saw. Is my problem technique or equipment?

I watched a couple videos where, to cut a 90 degree angle with a scroll saw, the wood worker simply twisted the wood 90 degrees very quickly. I tried this and it just ruined my blade by bending it out of shape.
I'm using a Dremel saw (https://www.homedepot.com/p/Dremel-Moto-Saw-0-6-Amp-Corded-Scroll-Saw-for-Plastic-Laminates-and-Metal-MS20-01/203899883).
And I'm using the the MS52 blade. The picture here makes it look a bit bigger than it is but you can see the specs below (https://www.dremel.com/en_US/products/-/show-product/accessories/ms52-fine-wood-cutting-blade).
Unfortunately, this saw has proprietary blades and this is the smallest one they offer as far as I've found. So now I'm trying to figure out whether I ought to reasonably be able to make 90 degree turns with this blade if I were doing it right, or do I just need to get a scroll saw that takes regular blades so I can use a smaller one?
I used it for the first time (and first time ever using any scroll saw) last night to make the piece below for my wife. I broke 2 blades in the process though. I'm thinking I will just need to get a saw that can take smaller blades but wanted to make sure it's not a technique thing first before I go get another saw just to experience the same problem if it's me.

A:

That's a nice first piece of work, especially given the limitations of your saw + blade!
The specs on the blade don't show the blade depth (i.e. from tip of the teeth to back of the blade), but it does specify the width as 0.025".  Extrapolating from the image, the depth looks to be quite large.  Comparing that to the largest blade I use (a #5), where the blade dimensions are specified as 0.038" deep x 0.016" wide, it looks like your blade is much larger.  For fine work I go down to a #00, which is 0.022" deep and 0.010" wide.  For comparison, that blade is shallower than yours is wide.  See https://www.olsonsaw.net/shop/scroll-saw-blades/plain-end-scroll-saw-blades-5-in-6-in/skip-tooth-blades-5in/ for some blade dimensions (disclaimer - I don't buy those particular blades, but have a local store which I get them from, but the dimensions will be very similar).
Based on that, I would say that yes, your blade is too large for 90 degree cuts.  With a proper blade and a little bit of experience, you should be able to rotate the saw blade in the cut (kerf) a full 360 degrees.  I don't think I would be able to do that with your blade at all.
Another downside to the blade / system you are using is that it has pinned ends - this prevents you from drilling a small hole and feeding the blade through if you need to do interior cuts.
So in short, while I am a huge supporter of trying to use the tools you already have instead of buying new ones, I think that you may be better off with a different saw.  Sorry :-(
Cheers

