Q:

Advice on table joinery

I have some images of a dining table.
The table has four legs at the corners. I like the joint of the leg to the table and would like some tips on how this can be done.

A:

would like some tips on how this can be done.

As I mention above in the Comments, this is a typical joint in Chinese furniture (and I think in other Asian furniture traditions as well, although I don't know how they do the joinery). However, as I indicated if this is a Western piece it could be done in any number of ways and the added photo of the underside seems to show that this is the case.
The joinery
This is a three-way mitre joint. Traditionally this joint was done with complex internal joinery, as seen in the bottom two images below:

Given the very beefy corner bracket for external reinforcement there's a chance the joint on your table is cut very simply and just glued together. Although this makes the glue-up challenging (the joints will want to slide across each other) it greatly speeds up the preceding steps. It's impossible to know because the details are now forever hidden, but there may be some internal reinforcement as well (e.g. floating tenons, biscuits, dowels) which, in addition to adding strength, will also lessen or prevent slippage of the glued surfaces during assembly.
Read more about modern three-way mitre joinery here on Wood Magazine and here on Fine Woodworking.
We can only identify one screw in the provided photos and it appears to be a (substantial) countersink-head Phillips screw. Given all the drilled holes in the bracket are the same diameter I'm presuming they used the same screws throughout, and note, including upwards, to attach the top; this gives us a further clue to its construction.
The top
While Chinese tables are made entirely of solid wood the main field of the top is done as a floating panel, similar to how panels are done on frame-and-panel cupboard doors, which allows for seasonal movement of the wood.
From the photos we have so far, this table doesn't appear to have that construction. I surmise it has a plywood top, and only plywood (or other manmade board) allows for a solid top on a table of this type, with the legs integral to the entire construction and firmly fixed in place around all four edges.
You would typically surround the manmade board with solid-wood edging, in a picture-frame manner that is not suitable for solid-wood construction (see previous Question).

