Q:

Finishing jatoba and maple chess board

I'm building a chess board -- I decided to use jatoba and maple for the board itself, (and am using wenge and maple for the trim).
After milling the jatoba, the exposed surfaces of the jatoba are no longer oxidized, which is a bit of a pity, as I specifically like the oxidized coloring. I'm wondering a few things at this point about the best way to finish these.
I'm assuming if I use a polyurethane finish, it will seal the wood, and prevent oxidization in the future.   If this is the case, should I wait a month before sealing it?   Will the wood still oxidize if I put an oil finish on it?

A:

the exposed surfaces of the jatoba are no longer oxidized
I specifically like the oxidized coloring.
prevent oxidization in the future.

Wood actually darkens primarily due to exposure to light, not air1. Although oxygen may be involved it's misleading to call the colour change oxidation, and it would be more accurate to refer to the colour of older wood as aged or patinated 2.
Because the effect is mostly about light the gist of your last query is easy to answer:

Will the wood still oxidize if I put an oil finish on it?

Yes, wood will still darken over time underneath an oil finish, as it does under all finishes (ignoring finishes containing UV absorbers).
It's also worth noting that oil finishes directly darken the wood most of all finish options, so you'll see a marked change in the jatoba right from the get go. But note that oil finishes also bring out the yellowness of maple, so if you were hoping to keep it as pale as possible there's a trade-off.

If this is the case, should I wait a month before sealing it?

I've never worked with jatoba, but unless the sunlight where you are is very strong at this time of year, or the jatoba reacts unusually quickly (as cherry is reputed to) a month wouldn't be enough time to see a very noticeable change in the colouring3. But as noted the oil finish will take you a good way towards the colouring you were seeing prior to milling.

1 You can see this effect most starkly in the workshop on boards stored vertically where one face is towards a window. The window-facing side darkens and the opposite face (exposed to the exactly the same amount of air but much less light) doesn't change colour much or at all.
2 Hence the "patina of age" that is sometimes used to describe the tone of wood in vintage and antique furniture (something that restoration work may take pains not to disturb).
3 You might be able to hasten the natural darkening by directly exposing the board to strong light, e.g. by placing it right by a south-facing window, but note that this will also have its effect on the maple.

