Q:

What would be the UK equivalent of the common US 2 by 4 (not just by size)

I've found a DIY shelving project that interests me and am setting about researching the best place to obtain the wood required for it.
In this project, and others I have seen, the American instructor commonly refers to the wood in use by the size, either 2 by 4 or 1 by 2 (only 2 sizes are used in this project).
I know from reading around that size wise this would roughly equate to the UK's 44 x 96 and 25 x 44 but it is my belief that in the US if someone refers to 'Using a bit of 2 x 4' then more is understood than just the size. It is also known what the type of wood it is, the cut, whether it is sawn / planned and so on.
So my question is:
Does the UK have a piece of wood that is universally commonly used for hobby / domestic projects that it is simple referred to by a common name and is this typically a suitable substitute for the US 2 x 4? If so is there a common place to purchase this wood (B&Q, Wickes, etc)?
If location makes a difference, I am located in northeast Scotland.

A:

Does the UK have a piece of wood that is universally commonly used for hobby / domestic projects that it is simple referred to by a common name and is this typically a suitable substitute for the US 2 x 4?

If Paul Sellers is any yardstick for how things are done in the UK, you use a 2x4 in the same sense that Americans would.  There are plenty of instances where Imperial units are used in the UK instead of metric, and this is one case for that.
This question on DIY.SE also discusses this issue.

I know from reading around that size wise this would roughly equate to the UK's 44 x 96 and 25 x 44

One weird thing about dimensional lumber is that the size (ex. 2x4) is nominal, meaning that it's only the approximate size.  For example, a 2x4 is actually 1.5" x 3.5" (38mm x 89mm) in cross-section.  There are various rules depending on the size of the member, so check out Table 1B of the NDS Supplement for Standard Dressed Size (of North American dimensional lumber, at least).

If so is there a common place to purchase this wood (B&Q, Wickes, etc)?

This is a regional thing, and really outside the scope of this SE.  However, any large home improvement store should have dimensional lumber for sale.  I don't know what your local UK stores are, so I can't help you there.

