Q:

Is there a reason not to glue a wooden bolt into its threads?

I am eagerly awaiting the arrival of my new tapping set from Beall and one of the uses I was thinking about was creating a mallet--turn a head and then tap a hole and screw in a wooden handle (I have a couple other similar projects on the docket as well).
Now other than not being able to easily remove the handle (should I break it or want a different one), is there any other reason not to do it?  Even on the flip side, are there very good reasons to do it? (I'm thinking it won't come loose when in use!)

A:

is there any other reason not to do it?

If you really want it glued, there's no problem with gluing it. But the whole point of using threads instead of glue or a wedged through tenon is that you can disassemble a threaded connection.

are there very good reasons to do it?

Two, that I can think of:

Although threads cut in wood are plenty strong for many uses, they are cut across the grain and can break. If the threads are at all loose, the force of a mallet blow might be applied to just a part of the threads and cause them to break. Glue could help support the threads and spread the force of the blow more evenly.
If your mallet handle isn't round, then you'll want it to maintain a particular orientation relative to the head. It'd be hard to thread the handle so that it bottoms out with the handle in exactly the right position, so you'd need glue or some other means of keeping the handle oriented correctly.

A:

If I were to glue it, I would just make a standard taper joint with a wedge in the end - much simpler.  
Gluing it would give you the strength of a mechanical connection with the permanence of glue, but you could get very nearly the same strength by just threading it, and basically draw boring the head in.  Once the handle is threaded on, drill a hole through the head, into and through the screws, and put in a screw or dowel to hold it in place.

A:

As Caleb mentioned, the entire point of using a threaded joint is to make it easy to disassemble--typically to replace a part or to break something down for storage. If you want a permanent connection, you're wasting time, effort, and possibly money (if you had to buy the tap specifically for this project) by threading and then permanently gluing the connection.
If you want to be able to disassemble the joint later but want to lock the threads in place in the meantime you can use hide glue. When you need to disassemble the joint in the future, you can simply heat up the joint and unscrew it. But then again, you could do the same with a plain old mortise and tenon.

...on the flip side, are there very good reasons to [glue a wooden bolt into its threads]?

Sure...

if making a threaded wooden rod (e.g., for a vise) that will only ever need to be detached at one end, or perhaps will never need to be detached.
if you want to get practice tapping threads but you want to knock out a few projects at the same time.
if you have a design that uses threads as visual elements but which is never supposed to be dismantled (e.g., maybe some wooden threaded rods used as through cross-bracing between legs on a stool.
if it comes unscrewed when you don't want it to, and you've decided you never want it to come unscrewed again.

