Q:

Do I need to clean my miter and table saw after each use?

A contractor told me that I need to clean wood dust from my table saw and miter saw after each use. He explained that leaving wood dust can impact the tools’ longevity and I should use a compressed air blower to clean the dust from the saw tools.
How accurate is that statement?
Update:
I got my answer through this post. 

It makes sense to clean the dust from power tools after each use 
wood dust can cause rust on the metal parts

However, still it is not clear to me that how essential is the use of a compressor air blower. Not everyone has a compressor and it might not be feasible to carry a compressor along with power tools to job sites. I personally think a shopvac should be efficient enough.Shopvac is an easier and more practical option.

A:

I think this falls under the "it's true, but doesn't matter" category.  Motors will operate at their peak efficiency when clean, but it takes a lot of dust build up before the performance or longevity would be impacted.
Personally, I clean off my tools prior to storing them, just because I like to keep things neat.  My Dad used the same miter saw on construction sites for years and the only cleaning it got was what fell out of it when he put it in the truck.

A:

What LeeG's answer covers is pretty spot on when it comes to build up of dust on the motor and the hidden areas. There is really no inherent harm in trying to clean the tools after every use (sort of somehow pushing dust into a crevice I suppose) except for maybe being an exercise in futility. 
Not to condone it but my 12 inch mitre saw has hardened sawdust build up behind the frame below where the motor is. There are no moving parts near there and it is not loose. I can turn it upside down (not an easy feat) and the dust will stay there. Been there for years and is not impacting the tools use at all.
I wanted to make a point of distinction. You are not talking about where the dust is being accumulated. I would frequently clean the table and surface of saw tools to prevent binding of the pieces being worked on. Mitre gauge slots of table saws are prone to this.  
If there is dust where wood will be passing I would clear that, while the tool is off, at every pass. 

A:

For the Miter saw: Ditto on LeeG and Matt's answers.
On the Tablesaw, I clean the table top off every time to avoid anything that might rust the cast iron top, then I give a quick wipe down with a lubricant (very quick spray and wipe, nothing detailed).  On the inside, my DC keeps the cabinet reasonably dust free, but at least once a year, I vacuum that out with my shopvac to keep things moving freely and them spray parts with a dry lube.  

