Q:

Does the bar oil from using a chainsaw create problems for woodworking?

I have some smallish sections of a tree trunk that I would like to break down, but they are too big for the power tools that I own, other than my chainsaw.
My biggest concern with the chainsaw is that it would leave bar oil behind on the wood. Would this create a problem for the jointer or planer afterwards, or would it soak into the wood and create problems when it is time for finishing? If so, should I clean it off somehow first?
Also, if I cut one of them into rounds, would it make a difference with the oil soaking into the end grain vs face grain?

A:

Odds are that your chainsaw cuts aren't going to be super smooth, so you'll end up sizing them with other tools. I cannot imagine that a bit of oil would cause any issue for a planer or jointer knife. On the face grain, the planing/jointing would likely remove any oily bits, and cutting the pieces to length (circular, miter, table or hand saw) would likely remove any of the end grain that had soaked up oil.
A good test would be to cut a test round, the apply your finish directly to the rough cut and see what happens. That will tell you if the saw is leaving enough oil behind to impact your chosen finish, and if so, how much sanding you'll have to do to get past that point.

A:

No, chainsaw oil is not a problem.  Chainsaws, even reasonably decent tuned ones, do not throw out enough oil to seriously damage the wood.  If it is, there is something wrong with your saw, either it is spewing way to much oil (in which case you likely need to fill up the oil reserve at least twice as often as the gas) or your chain is so dull that it is spending way to much time cutting through the wood.
There are chainsaw mills all over the country and they are used because they work and are cheap (compared to larger mills).  they have a large kerf, and even the steadiest hand leaves a pretty rough cut, so they will need to be run through a jointer and thickness planer, (or lot and lots of hand planning).
People use chainsaws for carving as well.  as long as it's decently tuned and sharp, shouldn't be a problem.

