Q:

Why is my countersink bit making hexagonal holes?

Every time I use my countersink bit, it creates a hexagonal hole.

I've tried a hand drill, an electric drill, drilling fast, drilling slow, soft pressure, firm pressure - virtually every time it will create a hexagonal hole. Of the 12 I drilled yesterday, only one was round, and that felt like it was due to that being an abnormally soft area in the wood.
Is it the design of the bit? I'm sure the one my dad used when I was a kid had many more vanes.
Or is it something I'm doing wrong?
Basically, how do I get a circular countersink?
SOLUTION:
Tried out some of the suggested solutions last night, from L-R is:

Countersink before hole
Large standard drill bit
Hand-turned countersink

Countersinking before drilling the whole is clearly the best, at least for the plywood I'm using. The hand-turned bit could potentially work with a bit more care too; the hole itself is nice and round. Maybe needs a sharper bit.

(Apologies for picture quality)
UPDATE: I had to do a couple more last night, but forgot to countersink first; the hand-turned technique worked really well in the painted plywood, although it took care to keep it centred.

A:

That's almost certainly due to the bit chattering.
You write that you already tried various speeds, but that's really the solution. Do not run too fast (try half the speed). Apply firm, controlled (but not too brutal, this causes chatter, or locking) press, and keep a steady centered hold as much as possible.
Using a drill press if you have one, or a drill rig, will help keeping it centered a lot more easily and more accurately, and applying the correct amount of pressure is a lot easier, too (plus, you have a stopper for nice equal-depth sinks in series).
Lacking a drill press or rig, use at least two hands on the machine. No cowboy-style shooting.
An electric screwdriver like the one you are using according to the below comment, is a rather bad choice, too. It can make holes, somehow, but it's not really suited for the task.
There's people who recommend pressing very, very gently, and going in very slowly (with a moderate to high drill speed), too. I'm not a big fan of that, although it "works" for the problem. You however create a lot of friction by rubbing and scrubbing slowly, which needlessly wears down the tool and may leave burn marks. Unless the tool is blunt (and in that case, throw it away!) there is no reason to rub and scrub in slowly. It's a cutting tool intended for cutting.

A:

Is it the design of the bit? 

Yes I believe that's partly it. But it's almost certainly not the only issue and the main one I think is that it's not sharp enough — this type of countersink rarely is from what I've seen. 
I have three of what looks like exactly the same countersink and every one of them was not sharp straight from the package, and I have seen many others on sale that appear to be just as (not) sharp. 
Definitely sharpen the bit if you can manage it as a first step to solving the problem.
Sharpening mine did improve performance, although it wasn't an absolute fix. In use the technique that seemed to help the most for me was to run the drill fast and use light pressure, with a very firm hold on the drill. This worked far more reliably than using low speed and firm pressure.
Another tip I read just the other day that you might like to try: countersink before you drill the clearance hole. I haven't been in a position to try it myself or I'd report on its effectiveness firsthand but apparently it makes a big difference. 

A:

In wood I tend to get better results with a non-powered countersink tool, not even a wheel brace (the hand drill you mention in another comment).  I can't find a suitably-licensed image online, but here's a picture of a dedicated tool.  You can do the same by using your bit in a non-ratchet screwdriver handle.  Don't push too hard.  For small holes (up to say a 6mm screw) in softwood/chip/mdf etc. it's quick -- depending on the job, quicker than swapping bits all the time.

