Q:

Are there alternative tools to a straight ironing rasp (or why are they so hard to find)?

I'm looking for a tool to smooth/flatten down a surface in a rectangular channel in the center of a piece of wood (I constructed the piece by gluing two halves together, but stupidly didn't clean the channel halves well prior to gluing).  The channel measures ~1" wide x 2" long x 8" deep (you can think of it as an 8" deep mortise).  It's roughly square, but needs a lot of help.  Only one surface actually needs to be flat/smooth.
The best tool that comes to mind for the job is a file or rasp, but I need the handle offset so that it can actually get in the channel (the piece's construction is such that without an offset handle I wouldn't be able to put the face of the tool against the surface of the wood).  Alternatively if there were a way for me to sand inside the channel that would work too, but I'm unfamiliar with any way to get sand paper in a channel that deep/narrow.  
After a ton of searching for things like "crank necked rasp" and "offset handle file" I finally learned that there is a name for what I think is my dream tool: straight ironing rasp.  This, for example, looks great:

It's pretty pricey and ships from Europe.  There seem to be tons of curved ironing rasps available from many of the usual online stores in the US, but very few straight options.  So far this is the only one I'm able to find.  This link implies that Auriou used to make a straight one, but now I can't seem to find it anywhere. Am I missing something here?  Why are there so few of these tools?  Does it go by a more common name that I'm just unaware of?

A:

Yeah, files/rasps with offset handles are very specialised. I don't think I've seen one in the wild ever; I know of them only from old books and from tool catalogues. 
You can in theory form your own cranked-handle file or rasp from a standard one. It requires a relatively minor job of annealing and bending at the tang end, but there is some risk of losing temper near the business end of the tool so I'd be hesitant to try it unless I had no other choice.
I think that the best solution here is a type of hand router. You can buy a number of types and there are a few basic types that can be made in the shop, but the chisel router AKA "poor man's router" might be just the ticket since they're so simple: you just need a piece of wood (and even pine will do), a chisel and a suitable drill bit to make one.

More detail given in the YouTube video the above image is taken from.

A:

It's roughly square, but needs a lot of help.

Paring Chisel
My first thought for this was a paring chisel. Especially if one of the surfaces needs to be flat and smooth. Paring chisels are designed for clean long cuts and are not meant to be struck. Instead you could stand over the channel an push the chisel down with your body weight. The tools length would help keep the channel square.
If your recess is actually 1 inch wide then using a 1 inch paring chisel would be the best choice. Those chisels are designed with length in mind so finding one that is at least 8 inches long shouldn't be too hard.
If you have never used one before test on another piece. These are not inherently hard to use but the ease of work can depend on your wood species.

Image from WkFineTools
The rasp blade you have picture would not make for a smooth surface. If it was like a cabinet rasp that would be better. Much like Graphus I have not seen handles rasps with necks like that.

Given that my presumption was partial wrong about the work piece I can offer another suggestion. Perhaps a swan neck mortise chisel? Really depends on the angle you need. One primary purpose is to clean the bottom of mortises but the curved head might still be useful. I think it would be harder for this one to get a clean surface but if you are careful it could still work. I have an even better suggestion after that though.....
Cranked neck paring chisel
Even better though is I found that they make cranked neck paring chisels as well. They can also be called cranked shaft paring chisels.

Image from woodworkingshows

A:

A simple, effective and less expensive option would be to glue various grits of sandpaper to appropriately shaped wood blocks. If you need off set as in the case of the crank neck chisel, a handle could easily be fashioned from a variety of materials and attached. Another way would be to make the tool from a single piece of wood, appropriately shaped with a flat for the sandpaper and curving up into a handle. 
It's completely customizable and readily available. No fussing with the wait time and expense of a tool you are likely to use very rarely. 

