Q:

Replacing hardware store 2x’s in plans with hardwood

I’m looking to build a bed soon. We both liked the farmhouse bed from Ana White, so wanted to go with that general design, but we’d like it to be made from hardwood.  I picked up a load of rough sawn cherry locally (air dried).  My question is about board thickness.  I already plan to laminate for the posts, but I’m thinking of the side rails. Is 4/4 going to be strong enough (6” wide)? should I laminate boards for that, use additional support posts around the middle of the side rail, or should it be good?
The plan is to use mortise and tenon for the side rails to attach to the posts, and also will have ~2x3 board behind the side rails running the length as support for the slats that I can also attach to the posts.
Long term, I’d like to place a hardwood dowel in the joint, but not until we buy our house, where it doesn’t need to be taken apart again.
Thanks!
Edit:
Link to inspiration plans
http://www.ana-white.com/2017/11/free_plans/modern-farmhouse-bed

A:

A 6" wide board of 4/4 cherry should be fine for the side rails of a bed.  If you want you can run the calculation through Sagulator, an online calculator designed to tell you how much a board will sag under load.  (Just be sure that the "depth" is 1" and the "thickness" is 6" since the board will be on edge.)

A:

Is 4/4 going to be strong enough (6” wide)?

That should work but is worth checking Sagulator as Sassafras suggests.  Assume that the weight of both of you will be placed at the center of one side. Design based on extreme loads, not just usual loads.

and also will have ~2x3 board behind the side rails running the length as support for the slats

Realize that this is a major part of the support and needs to attached firmly to the rail (gluing will do fine, glue and screw will be even better).

use additional support posts around the middle of the side rail,

The diagram of the ana-white bed shows a center rail.  It is being asked to carry half the load and should definitely have a center support. 

