Q:

How can I design a large cherry table with no aprons?

I am trying to build a cherry table.  I will be creating the top out of multiple 8/4 boards using standard techniques.  The table will be 42" wide by at least 68" long.  I have come up with the idea to not use aprons.  
My question is how should I stiffen the table without having the aprons for support?
My ideas so far:

Use a router to create one or two grooves almost the entire length of the table (making sure that the groove is in only one piece of wood), then insert a "spline" along that length that will be 4/4 stock; basically a long mortise and tenon to attach an apron in the middle of the table.  I figure if I glue this in, it will strengthen the table length-wise and not cause problem due to wood movement because the groove will run with the grain.  I would probably do this several times because I don't want the "apron" to stick out from the bottom too much, so it would not be super thick
Do the same grooves but instead epoxy in metal splines
Don't do anything to strengthen it lengthwise, because 8/4 cherry over that length may just be strong enough?
Attach wood strips across the grain using cleats to strengthen table across the width
??  

I'm looking for any good suggestions/critiques here.  Googling has lead me to believe that nobody really does this, but I've seen huge tables with only the 4 legs for support, so I'm guessing it can be done.

A:

The apron on a four legged table serves a number of functions, and you may not have considered them all. The apron:

stiffens the top, helping to keep it flat
transfers the load to the legs
connects the legs to each other and keeps them vertical
connects the top to the base (i.e. legs + apron)
in a large table, supports stretchers that support the top in the middle
provides aesthetic balance for the legs (a 1" top on 3" legs would look funny)

You can ignore the aesthetic function if you choose, but if you want your table to last you have to consider the structural functions. For example, without aprons to support the width of the table, the joints between the boards in the top would experience much more stress than they do in a regular table. Breadboard ends could help here, but they're not a complete solution.
What do you think would happen over time if you screwed legs to the corners of a 3/4" sheet of plywood? Plywood has very good rigidity both lengthwise and crosswise, and there are no joints to worry about. I don't think it'd be long before the top began to sag and the legs started to splay outward. As soon as that happened, there'd be a lot of lateral force on the legs which would cause them to become loose.
Your "spline" idea isn't a bad one, but I think you'll need more than just one down the middle, and it doesn't solve the problem of supporting the top crosswise or bracing the legs.
One possibility is to connect the legs diagonally, forming an X that would support the top. If you want to hide that structure as much as possible you could build it out of square steel tubing, welded at the center, with vertical bits welded on at each corner to support the legs.
On the aesthetic side, now is the time to start making some drawings that will let you really see how your table will look. That'll also force you to think more carefully about the structural aspects of your design.

