Q:

Good way to illustrate project / make a template of my small wood phone dock project? (CAD)?

I have not done woodworking much before and a friend invited me to build something...  I have it all planned out in my head but I don't know what software is available etc for making a good template that my friend can follow...

A:

Most woodworkers who do CAD-like renderings these days are using SketchUp; the free version is pretty decent and lots of online tutorials exist. This is an observation, not a recommendation.

A:

I'd say that CAD is not necessarily your best option. Don't get me wrong. CAD is a great thing and learning any CAD software will be a very handy thing to have up your sleeve. I highly recommend learning any CAD software (no matter how limited or advanced)
However, there are a few problems:

I have not done woodworking much before

Think of CAD software as a helper to create (mostly) any 3D geometry. Unless you have some very advanced CAD software, it will not tell you if that geometry makes any sense.
You can spend hours creating something, which might be hard or impossible to manufacture.

making a good template that my friend can follow...

What's possible and what not can be hard to tell. It depends on what material (wood) is available and what tools are available to shape or modify it. Maybe your design is valid, but your friend lacks the right router bit to do it. Chances are that he cannot follow it.

my small wood phone dock project

Starting with a small project is a great idea! It can be easy to bite off more than one can chew, but with a small project it's easy to finish it.
And for a small project, you have to ask yourself if CAD isn't overkill.
Here are my suggestions:

Design the project with your friend together. Don't sit alone in the basement for 3 months designing something in some CAD program that cannot be manufactured. The important thing is to understand what's possible with wood and what isn't. This way you can understand the important details of your design that make it either hard or easy to make. This depends on what tools and wood are available to your friend, which is why I recommend doing it together with him.
Doing the design with your friend allows him to understand you. An ongoing communication is a lot easier to understand than just throwing a technical drawing at somebody "I want this done Tuesday!". Make simple sketches (on paper or any drawing program) to document what you both agree on.
(optional) if you want to get into CAD, create a 3D part from the sketches. This is easier for you now, because you know the end result. You are not learning the CAD program and figuring out the design at the same time.

