Q:

Is glue the best permanent join?

My understanding of modern wood glue is that, if the proper glue is used and wood surfaces are properly prepared, it will form a bond stronger than the wood itself.
Is this true? If not what are the exceptions to that statement?  If so does that mean that complicated and/or elaborate mechanical joints — e.g., dovetail joints — are now more decorative than practical?

A:

Indeed, when done properly, the glue is stronger than the wood itself when both of the glued faces are edge-grain or face-grain. 
A few circumstances come to mind when glue alone is not stronger than the wood:
End Grain
When glue is applied to end-grain, the grain acts as little straws and draws a lot of the glue up the wood, away from the joint (similar to how the grain draws water up the tree when the tree is alive). In these cases, the majority of the glue is pulled away from the joint and (without more elaborate joinery techniques) a strong joint cannot be achieved, no matter how rough you sand or how tight your clamps are.
Joining with an end-grain face is unavoidable for 90-degree joints, such as when making boxes or drawers. This is why you'll often see dovetail or finger joints used in these cases. These joints not only provide physical limitations to how the wood can move, but also allow the glue to be applied to a greater surface area and along edge-grain faces, creating a  much stronger joint.
Joining end-grain faces is also unavoidable for 180-degree joints, and a good round-up of techniques to strengthen this joint can be found at the question, How can I join two boards at the ends?
Wood Movement
There are a lot of factors that determine how a piece of wood reacts to changes in humidity or contact with water. These include the type of wood, its density and shape, the direction of the grain, and its age. Therefore, the two pieces of wood that make up the joint will often react differently to the changing environment, putting unique stresses and tension on the joint. Furthermore, the direction of the tension is often different than what is  expected under typical use of the joint.
When significant changes in moisture are anticipated, glued joints can fail as the different pieces of wood react differently to the change in moisture.

A:

I've always been told that when you glue two boards together that the join will be stronger than the surrounding wood.  This is primarily for joining boards to make a wider (or thicker) board. Long edge to long edge, and if you properly join them it seems to be true. When bending a board to break I've never seen it break along the seam.  I have seen the glue fail over time and the board will split along the seam.  Though this is mostly from years of seasonal movement and likely the two boards didn't move the same together.
I also tend to use my biscuit joiner to help reinforce these joints as well.
Now comparing that to dovetail joints is a very different subject.  Dovetail joints help strengthen an angle.  Glue doesn't do nearly as well with angles or pieces that will get a lot of stress from different angles.  A corner is end-grain being attached to face grain, which already is a weaker glue joint.  On top of that it will suffer more opposing stresses.
A dovetail adds physical strength from the wood itself, also give more surface area to glue.  Other forms of joinery do the same thing, they are needed to hand different cross stresses and provide more strength.

A:

In the tests performed by Matthias Wandel. He found that most glues performed equally as well. And when joints failed it was with wood coming out.
However the strongest part of wood is along the grain and grain is rarely straight. So the joint area would still be weaker than if it was a solid piece of wood.

