Q:

Building a sideways bookshelf

I am trying to build a sideways bookshelf. The space I have to fit the bookshelf in is:
Depth: 13.7 inches
Length: 87.5 inches
Height: 35.5 inches
When I looked online for store-made bookshelves, none of them came close to matching these dimensions. So I'm thinking of making my own bookshelf. However, I've never made a bookshelf before, so I am looking for some pointers.
My basic thinking is that I just buy

2 pieces of 87.5'' x 12'' for the top and bottom of the bookshelf
2 pieces of 12'' x 33.5'' to support the top of the shelf
1 piece of 87.5'' x 35.5'' ask the back of the shelf

Firstly:

In the above dimensions, I assume the boards supporting the top of the shelf are 33.5'' and not 35.5 because I am assuming that the top and bottom of the shelf are each 1'' thick. Is that a good assumption or should it be thicker/thinner?
How should I make the shelves? I assume I can make 3 shelves in the space, each being ~10.5'' in height. (Explanation: 33.5 is the starting height inside the shelf, add two boards in the middle, each 1'' thick, and we get 31.5, divide each space up evenly = 31.5/3 = 10.5.) How would I support those shelves so they don't bend? Would making only two shelves be easier?

Additionally,

Are there any tips/tricks/helpful hints about making bookshelves that a novice like me might overlook?
When making a sideways bookshelf, what special considerations should I be keeping in mind?
What materials should I be using? Any wood and or screws or are there specific types that are best?

Thanks

A:

Your main issue is the large span for the shelves. Plugging in your dimensions into The Sagulator gives a sag of over 1/4" with pine, a tad under 1/4" with oak and around an inch for particle board or MDF.
The easiest way to reduce the sag is to have more support for the shelves. Even a single support in the middle (which reduces the span from 85" to 42.5") yields an acceptable sag. Two supports at 28" apart will be even better, allowing use of thinner or weaker shelf material.
If the bottom of the bookcase sits directly on the floor (i.e. without legs), the shelf supports can simply be 10.5" tall pieces of wood placed between the two shelves and between the bottom shelf and the bottom of the bookcase (no need to have the support between the top shelf and the top of the bookcase, unless you plan to use the top to store things as well (which from your description you can't)).
A simple construction of pieces of wood cut to length and then screwed together would be perfectly serviceable. Pre-drill the screw holes to avoid the wood splitting.
Finally, if you are planning on using pine boards from the big box store, note that a 1x12 board is actually 3/4" thick and 11-1/4" wide, so keep that in mind when making the cuts to length.

