Q:

Replacing small drill bits without buying new sets (or preventing breaks)

It seems that every few months, I've broken all my pilot hole drill bits because they're so easy to break (and so frequently used). So, every few months, I buy a whole new pack of drill bits and throw away everything in the pack above 1/8 inch or so (since my bigger drill bits are still in working condition). And then again, I attempt to drill gently, but inevitably, several months later, all my small drill bits break.  
Does anyone else have this problem? If so, what are potential solutions. Perhaps...

Is there a place that you know of that sells only the small drill bits (preferably the ones with a 1/4 in hex chuck)? I hate to keep tossing the bigger bits.
Has anyone found a method of drilling through hardwoods that won't break drill bits over time?
Anything else that I'm missing?

A:

Yes, small drill bits can break easily.  Some manufacturers offer multi-packs of a single size drill bit. Multi-packs are also available for 1/4" hex shank bits.
Some high-end drill bits are more durable. Recently at The Woodworking Shows I also saw a demonstration by a drill bit vendor drilling through files and brake rotors. First he drilled through with a larger bit, then he used a small bit and flexed it all different directions--I was pretty sure the bit was going to snap, but it didn't.

A:

Rob has presented the high end solution, I will present the cheap hack end of the spectrum. 
For drilling pilot holes, you can use a brad or nail with the head snipped off. This works remarkably well, is cost-effective and easy to do. Depending on the the brad in question, you many not need to snip the head, in which case you can use the brad after a few drillings.
I would also take a look at some parts of the drilling equation - rotation speed, downward force, sharpness of the drill bits and the steadiness of the drill. If the drill bit is dull, rotating slowly with a great force pushing down and the drill wiggles, it is much more likely to break. So see if you can improve part of this. I find if the drill is steady and fast, the bits are sharp and there is no lateral movement, I have no issues. If that doesn't help, try a drill press and clamp your work down before drilling. 

A:

Small drill bits must be spun very fast and "pecked" much more frequently than larger bits.
Factor 1 - Cutter surface speed
The surface speed of a drill bit is how fast the cutting edge moves across the material being drilled. This is measured in surface feet per minute (SFM) and is proportional to both the RPM and the diameter of the bit.
When you get down to small sizes, say 1/16", you need high revs to be moving the cutting edge at an appropriate speed, keeping the chip load (and therefore cutting forces) low. The recommended SFM for wood is 600 to 1000.
The recommended drilling speed for a 1/16" bit is on the order of 40,000 RPM:
(SFM * 12) / (Pi * Dia.) = (600 * 12) / (3.14 * 1/16) = 36,688 RPM

which of course is higher than most folks have available. So you'll want to use your fastest speed and feed the bit proportionately more slowly.
Factor 2 - Chip evacuation
Once your hole is more than a couple bit diameters deep, you need to pull the bit out of the hole periodically to clear the chips. Failing to do this causes the bit to bind in the accumulated chips and break the bit. This periodic drill, pull out, drill action is called "pecking".
All the chips formed by a twist drill must be "stored" in the flutes. These can hold at most a few diameters worth of material before they become "packed" with chips. Continuing to drill in this state packs the chips against the wall of the hole and binds the bit, causing it to break.
Pecking is required on small bits at the same number of diameters as a big bit, but since the diameter is small, the pecks need to be what seem like very small amounts, say 1/8" for the 1/16" bit.
By keeping these two things in mind, smaller bits can last as long as larger ones, which for most home users is "indefinitely".

