Q:

How to make out-of-square cabinet square?

I'm refinishing some old speaker cabinets and noticed they were out of square. They're reasonably sturdy, but if I push the top sideways while holding the bottom (shear force), I can bend them square. In case it's relevant, they're just four boards nailed or screwed together... I can't tell for sure because the fasteners have been covered with wood filler.
I had my wife hold one of the cabinets square by pushing the top sideways while I installed angle brackets on two of the four corners. But when she let go, it immediately went back to not being square. In other words, the two angle brackets weren't strong enough to hold the cabinet in the desired position.
I'm not sure how to get these cabinets square without disassembling them... try more brackets? I have plenty more and could put two in each corner. But I don't want to put a bunch of holes in the cabs if it's not likely to work. Or use beefier brackets? I'm not sure where to find something like that. Or maybe some other way?
By the way, if I have to disassemble them, I think I'd just leave them out-of-square and tell people they were designed that way to add to the tone.

A:

You're on the right track with respect to beefier brackets. Consider the square you've used to check the distortion. It is stronger in the flat plane than the tiny brackets you have. An exaggerated but appropriate bracket would be similar to a supported shelf bracket such as this Home Depot model:

Note that it is not a flat piece of steel bent at 90°, but has a reinforcing bulge that provides the necessary strength to keep things square. As noted, this is an exaggerated solution to serve as an assistant to head you in the right direction.
Another option would be a tension type of attachment. Consider that one of your diagonal dimensions is greater than the other. Attach a tab to those corners, stretch strong wire between the two and apply tension while forcing the cabinet to square. It would be advisable to create an opposite diagonal as well, to prevent the cabinet from going beyond the previous location.
From the DIY SE comes this image, not specifically of a cable brace, but representative of the concept:

The hand-drawn arrow would be the cable to be tensioned.
Alternatively, replace the cable with a solid brace cut to fit the corners. This would be used to force apart the diagonal of the smaller measurement until the cabinet is square.
Gussets are another method of squaring a frame. A triangle of thinner wood fastened to the frame at the back or front (if you are using speaker grille cloth) will force apart or pull together the adjacent pieces to a square position. Extending that concept even more would be to use a carefully cut square piece of wood that encloses all four sides.
Some of these suggestions will not work if there is a speaker in the way or another obstruction. They are provided to present options from which you can progress.

