Q:

Treehouse plans call for a 4x10 beam. Can I sandwich a pair of 2x10 and secure them with glue and screws?

I am trying to build a tree house and I bough plans for it. The plans call for 4x10 beams, which my local big box store doesn't carry. Can I get away with sandwiching 2 2x10 boards using glue and screws? I figure since all the load will be top to bottom, it should be OK. The beams will be attaching to a Tree Attachment Bolt (TAB). Here's the image of the support structure, with the 4x10 beams visible. 

A:

Preamble: I'm not an engineer. Opinions here represent received wisdom from years as a carpenter. If you need the absolute truth, consult a professional engineer and get a stamp on your plans.
There are a lot of variables that go into wood beam sizing. Wood species and grade are the biggies. Predicted live load and acceptable deflection also matter.
As a very general statement, 2-2x10s will span around 10'. So if your treehouse footprint is just a little over 20' per side, you should be fine. (I'm assuming that the middle of the long beams are lagged into the tree... otherwise, that changes that span dramatically.)
Just to repeat the comments, if you switch from a 4x10 to 2-2x10, you'll need different joist hangers, eg Simpson LUS210-2Z, as opposed to LUS410Z. (There are also nicer looking hangers, like the HUC line, if you want.) Making a double 2x10 technically requires 10d nails at 16" oc around the edge. I'd use bigger nails (almost 16d), 3 or 4 at 16" oc, but not too close to the ends. Glue between doesn't really help much.
(Edit, to address glue comments: I agree completely that glue, properly deployed — flat mating surfaces, appropriate moisture content, good clamping, etc — is the strongest solution. In a framing setting, where wood can be wet, uneven, etc, one doesn’t want to rely on glue instead of mechanical fasteners. I think it’s the unpredictability of glue quality that makes professionals just ignore it completely.)
Laziness abounds, so I'll cut and paste my lumberyard vs big box rant: Speaking of big box versus real lumberyard... lumberyard quality is usually higher, they’ll have 4x10s, they’ll deliver, they’ll have the hardware you need, and they’re probably price competitive with the big box. Plus you’ll save time/materials that you’d spend assembling your 2-2x10 beams. I get that this doesn’t help if you live more than 50 miles from a real lumberyard...
Last but not least, handrail post attachment methods have improved in recent years. If your plans don't involve tiebacks (eg Simpson DTT-2Z), do a bit of research. For a little more work, a tieback will produce a much more solid and durable railing.

