Q:

Reading a hardwood dealer's price list for plywood

I've seen The Wood Whisperer's video about some of the terms and such you see at a hardwood dealer, but it deals mostly with solid wood. There are some topics he doesn't touch on, like the various grades of plywood. I have the price list from my local hardwood dealer:
and there are several terms / abbreviations there: L/C, V/C, PS, RC, A-1, D-3, etc. Depending on the wood species, there's only 1 option to choose from (like Cherry), so if I want plywood with that veneer, I have to get that grade / quality / whatever, or go elsewhere. But, if I'm looking for e.g., Baltic Birch, I have 2 options (4B and 3B), or if I want regular Birch, I can choose B-2 V/C or A-1 L/C.
What do these terms / abbreviations mean, and when would I choose one over another? Are these standardized among hardwood dealers, or will they all have their own system?

A:

There are indeed standard definitions for plywood grades. Unfortunately different countries may use different standards. But the most common conventions, per Wikipedia, are:

A Face and back veneers practically free from all defects.
A/B   Face veneers practically free from all defects. Reverse veneers
  with only a few small knots or discolorations.
A/BB  Face as A but reverse side permitting jointed veneers, large
  knots, plugs, etc.
B Both side veneers with only a few small knots or discolorations.
B/BB  Face veneers with only a few small knots or discolorations.
  Reverse side permitting jointed veneers, large knots, plugs, etc.
BB    Both sides permitting jointed veneers, large knots, plugs, etc.
C/D   For structural plywood, this grade means that the face has knots
  and defects filled in and the reverse may have some that are not
  filled. Neither face is an appearance grade, nor are they sanded
  smooth. This grade is often used for sheathing the surfaces of a
  building prior to being covered with another product like flooring,
  siding, concrete, or roofing materials.
WG    Guaranteed well glued only. All broken knots plugged.
X Knots, knotholes, cracks, and all other defects permitted.
WBP   Weather and Boil Proof used in Marine Ply. Designation replaced by
  EN 314-3. JPIC Standards
BB/CC Face as BB, back as CC. BB as very little knots of less than 1/4
  inches, slight discoloration, no decay, split and wormholes mended
  skillfully, matched colors, no blister, no wrinkle. Common cost
  compromise for stuff that doesn't have to look like anything but
  softwood plywood.

However, the quoted table includes some additions and suffixes, and I'm not sure how to read those. You could ask the dealer to translate these...

A:

In addition to the grade, plywood can have different cores.  
The following is taken from PaxtonWood.Com
Combination Core
There are two types of Combination Core construction. The first type consists of a center veneer core and a crossband veneer on both sides of the center with a layer of MDF, particleboard, or hardboard under the face and back veneer. The second type consists of an oriented strand board or wafer board center with a veneer crossband on both sides, under the face and back veneer. Combination Core can be used when the project calls for consistent flatness and good screw-hold ability, without the weight of a MDF or particleboard core.

Lumber Core
Lumber edge glued into a solid slab is considered Lumber Core. Lumber Core plywood is most often found in the construction of import panels, usually only 18mm thickness panels. Lumber Core plywood consists of a face & back veneer, then a layer of crossband veneer, with the edge glued lumber in the center. Lumber Core plywood should be used for the bending strength and screw-hold ability. The ability of Lumber Core plywood to bounce back makes it an excellent choice when constructing long or wide shelves in cabinets or closets.

MDF Core
Medium Density Fiberboard Core has the most uniform thickness and consistency of any panel core. The face and back veneer are glued directly to the MDF Core without the need for a crossband veneer. The consistency in thickness and flatness makes MDF Core panels the preferred choice for 32mm construction.

Particleboard Core
Particleboard Core panels are constructed similar to MDF Core panels, with the face & back veneers glued directly to the core. Particleboard Core lays flat like MDF, but does not have the screw-hold strength of other cores. Particleboard Core is the least expensive of all core types.

Veneer Core
Veneer Core plywood consists of a center veneer and crossband veneers alternately layered on both sides of the center to the desired thickness producing an odd number of veneers for the core. The weight-bearing strength of Veneer Core plywood is excellent along with its bending strength and screw-hold ability. Veneer core panels are lighter in weight than any other core type.

In addition, the veneer on the panel can be cut one of two ways.
Plain Sliced
Plain slicing a log occurs when a log is only turned a few inches at a time when slicing it, versus a constant turn and peeling method used for Rotary Cut veneer. Plain Sliced veneer produces a cathedral grain pattern, similar to the pattern produced when plain sawn lumber is produced. Plain Sliced veneer is cut along the growth rings, producing the highest yield of any “slicing” method.
Rotary
Rotary is the process of peeling the entire long. Turning the log, while shaving the veneer as it turns produces Rotary Cut veneer. This process is the only cutting method that is capable of producing whole piece face veneers. Rotary cut will yield veneer with a broad grain pattern with no plain sliced or quartered appearance. Rotary cut veneers are used in the majority of panels produced in North America. This process yields the most veneer per log and is usually less expensive than sliced veneer.

