Q:

Unobtrusive ways to protect plywood corners?

I'm building a bunch of cabinets out of 3/4" plywood.  The corners are beveled so there's no ugly plywood "end grain" showing in the joints.
While the joint looks fantastic, I'm concerned that the thin plywood veneer will dent and deform easily on this corner.  Since it's veneered plywood, I also can't round the corner at all to discourage denting.  What is the best way to protect this corner?
Will varnish or some other sort of finish help?  Perhaps one of those clear plastic "sheet rock corner" protectors?  Or, am I overreacting, and just need to accept that dents will happen?

A:

Perhaps the most common solution is to build hardwood face frames for your cabinets. The face frame conceals and protects the edge of the plywood.
If your cabinets are already built, a film finish will help protect against damage, but may not hold up to seasonal movement over time along the mitered joints.  Personally I wouldn't bother with the clear plastic corner protectors because I think they're ugly. I would install hardwood trim around the corners instead.

A:

By beveled, do you actually mean mitered?  You could use a little cleat of hardwood, which is something you can even do after you've already assembled the cabinets.  (with plywood, biscuits are possibly not necessary, although personally, I'd probably use anyway).
Here's a picture of what I'm suggesting:

(picture from 12 ways to build cabinets faster and better with biscuits)

A:

One way that I have used for this is to just use overlap corner joints for the plywood. This type of joint covers one raw edge of the plywood. On the other piece that is left with the raw edge showing I've glued on a thin strip of solid wood of the same type as the nice face of the plywood. 
The thickness that works nicely for this is 1/8 inch. There are many options of how the corner is actually formed that depends just exactly what you are building. Here are some ideas of how the corner joints can be constructed to give different style looks.

