Q:

DIY: Cheap pro tools or expensive DIY variant

I want to start with woodworking, and am looking at power tools. I've looked at a lot of comparisons and reviews on Youtube, and most of them recommend that you shouldn't buy expert tools as a DIY. 
But I've noticed that the cheaper expert tools are about the same price as the expensive DIY tools. A few examples of what I mean:

Bosch PEX400 AE (green) is about the same price as Bosch GEX 125-2 AE (blue)
Ryobi RCS 1600K is just a bit cheaper than the Milwaukee CS 55

I chose the companies above since they are DIY and pro variants of tools from the same manufacturer. That way I hope that I don't create confusion and discussions about different brands.
My question is what I should think about when deciding if I should buy cheap pro tools or expensive DIY tools.
The main worry for me is that I buy a lot of tools, and have to buy new tools in a year or two. I don't like the idea of buying new tools because I didn't do my research and bought good enough tools to start with.

A:

The differences in price between any two similar appliances is driven by a complicated matrix of global market capitalism, most of which will be opaque to you, or out of your control.
The prices at your local store will be driven by a variety of things, from a choice to use sintered or plastic gears during manufacture, to how badly your local store needs to move some stock because of the shelving deals they have made with a large transnational corporation.
As pointed out in comments, there is no such thing as a "pro" or "expert" tools. That is, no tool is intrinsically for experts. Rather, such brands position themselves thusly via marketing. The distinguishing characteristics will be held up as examples of their suitability for the pro, but those characteristics may not be useful to you, and certainly will not necessarily match from brand to brand or model to model.
Instead, make your tool investments based on how you expect to use them. We are slowly building a wiki-like collection of first-time buyers info (there is one for circular saws, for example) that talks about useful features from a woodworking perspective. It's more important to know, for example, what sort of sole a saw has and how the different soles are useful for different sorts of work, than the colour of the body or the words on a sticker. (This is where a local makerspace or shared woodworking shop can really help. You get the advantage of talking to people about how tools work for them, and get to try things out for yourself. This is an excellent way to build up your skill. Never underestimate the value of what the radio folks refer to as "Elmers".)
As I mention in my comment, start slowly, and only once you have an idea of what you want to use a tool for. Compare based on features within your price range. And always ask yourself the questions, "Do I really need this? Do I really need this now?"

