Q:

Do I need to laminate both sides of plywood or can I coat one side and laminate the other

I am relatively new to woodworking. I am in the process of laminating plywood (which will be used as a tabletop and also to hide the actual support for the table). I have googled alot and found different answers. Some are not even for plywood.My question is do I need to laminate both sides? 
The cost and time will be high if I do laminate.. Some parts of the plywood will be sealed to the wall so that will be useless to laminate. Can I get away with laminating one side and just coating the other side with varnish or something else (please recommend me).
The humidity here is almost constant, 

A:

Part of the answer depends upon the size of the piece, its thickness, and possibly the number of layers in the panel.  I do not know any hard and fast rules for making a determination but here are some considerations.

The grain in each layer is set perpendicular so that strength in the panel resists the tendency of adjacent layers to curl as moisture and temperature generate distorting stresses.
Plywood panels have odd number of layers so that the opposing forces are balanced helping the panel keep a flat profile.
If the plywood panel is small (<18" width and depth) and the panel is thicker (3/4") adding a thin veneer layer on one side only will probably work. As the dimensions increase or the thickness decreases the risk of distortion increases. Of course, if the surface applied on the face is thicker, it will generate more stress in the panel.
Painting one side will not prevent moisture penetration and curling.  Moisture is tenacious and will find a  way in generating stress in the panel. The edges of the panel will be especially vulnerable to admitting moisture.  However, the steady humidity in your chart is a good thing and will help.
There are other panel materials such as MDF or particle boards which can be used as a substrate that are not subject to the same stresses that could be used.  For instance, kitchen countertops are only laminated on one side (with a waterproof membrane no less) and maintain a flat profile for long periods. despite humid conditions. 

If there is a design  reason such as maintaining a specified thickness for only veneering one side, then it is worth a shot, otherwise I would recommend surfacing both sides.

