Q:

Bullnose router bit 1/4"shank is there a max radius (can't find 1" radius on 1/4" or 8mm shank)

I'm looking to finish my woodworking project by rounding the edges of the surfaces with a bullnose routing bit. Like other furnishing in our home. I'm working with 22mm MDF and don't want the straight edges so looking for a radius of at least 1" or even bigger to make it a bit more 'flat'
However I can't seem to find anything on 1/4" shank that is big enough. Is there a particular reason for this or just that it's something amateurs are not supposed to do?

A:

There are multiple reasons you don't find 1/4" shank bits with larger profiles. For example:

Safety - the larger your profile, the greater the stress on the bit overall, including the shank. Nobody wants a 1" bit shearing at its shank while cutting. In addition, as the bit's mass approaches the mass of the router (e.g., a small trim router), it will become more difficult to control. Requiring a 1/2" shank incidentally also requires you to use a larger router with greater inertia. As Jacob Edmond and Ljk2000 pointed out in comments, variable speed is another important feature, since you need to slow down the motor for large bits in order to maintain a safer operating speed at the outer edge of the bit.
Power - routers that only handle a 1/4" shank generally have smaller motors. If you put a large cutter on a small router, you are more likely to stall the motor, especially if you take large bites out of your material.
Cost - once you go beyond a certain size, it does not make economic sense to manufacture bits in both 1/4" and 1/2" shank varieties because larger bits are already more expensive and most likely sell in smaller quantities, and most routers capable of spinning larger bits can accept a 1/2" shank.
Heat - I have a hard time believing this one is very significant once you get to the larger bits, but I'll include it for completeness anyway since it does come up in discussions of 1/4" vs. 1/2" shanks. To some degree, the shank helps pull away and dissipate heat from the cutters, and a smaller shank won't be as effective as a larger shank.

