Q:

Wood bit vs Forstner bit for cam connector holes

I am wanting to fix my MDF cabinet together with cam dowels and connectors (I rent, so for ease of moving I want the option to flatpack. Of course I will glue up when I get somewhere permanent, don't moan at me :-P).
I have bought the following:

Rimless Cam Connector - Min Panel Thickness 12mm
Self Drive Dowel - Cam Centre/Pin Length 34mm
12mm wood drill bit such as that pictured below

I have been doing a test piece to connect 2 scrap pieces together and have been coming up against a bit of an issue...
My MDF is 18mm thick, the quoted length of the cam connectors is 10mm with the locking centre being quoted as 6mm, so in theory I should be able to drill in with my drill bit and have everything line up ok as shown in my diagram below...

However... I have been finding that the point of the drill bit is rather long and appears to be either poking through the other side of my MDF, or at least making a small bulge.
Is there anything I can do to avoid this? Would a Forstner bit be a better option for this job?
UPDATE
So after a few more tests, drilling in slowly and checking the fit I was still frustrated and decided to actually measure the length of the point on the drill bit... It appears the point is greater than 4mm, so of course it is poking out of the other side! Would a Forstner bit's point be less dramatic as to help me with my issue here?

A:

A forstner bit may have a shorter point, but for such a small diameter, it's not a certainty. It's likely from your description that you're using a hand drill, which makes precision holes just a bit more difficult than a drill press.
It could be considered heresy but I will occasionally use a milling bit in my milling machine to create a flat bottom hole in wood, retracting it frequently to clear the chips. Good results with slower speed and feed than normally used for a metal cutting tool. It's just not practical with a hand held device due to the lack of a centering point.

