Q:

How do I know when it is too cold to work outside?

My woodworking has been at a standstill during the winter months. The main reasons for that are

I no longer have stable surfaces to work with since I work outside
I need to wear warm clothing which prevents me from safely using many power tools

As of now though the temperature is hovering around freezing. Still cold but I thought about using my router real quick to clean up some 2x4 name blocks I am making for kids. I could move my router table to the end of my deck, which is flat, and run that for a couple of minutes easily. 
I have a problem with that idea though. The cold is not the best friend of electronics and tools. I worry that it might be too brittle and shatter. While that might not be a certainty I think I am right to be cautious about this. 
What can I do to safely work in colder temperatures outdoors?

A:

In general how cold can you safely work, is how safe do you feel working in that temperature?
I have used all my tools in sub zero temperatures (below -18C).  I don't like it, and if I needed to use them for more than 30 minutes I'd start a fire in the stove to try and make it comfortable.  
But I've used, my jointer, table saw, routers, lathe, etc. in very cold temps.  In general they handle it better than you.  The one place you might want to take care as far as your tools is moisture (bringing them into a warm place and it condenses).  
Now I don't recommend prolonged use in the cold, but no reason not to use them if you can still do so safely.  I suspect that people watching me use some of my tools in the winter would cringe (I often wear gloves), but as long as you take care, (don't wear a scarf!, or other loose cloths) the tools should be just fine.
(unless of course there are warnings for the tool in question from the manufacturer!)
Oh, yeah, of course you shouldn't be using glue, or any drying finish below 40F (5C)...

A:

I would say the only real potential for danger is your hands being too cold and your reactions / dexterity / sensitivity being low, as well as getting bulky clothes caught in machinery as you already identify. As long as you can avoid those two things you'll be fine.
I suspect that temperatures tolerable to humans aren't cold enough to significantly change the properties of router bits - certainly not for long enough to affect your work, they'll heat up virtually instantaneously anyways (even before you start cutting... that motor puts out a lot of heat), but you could just keep your router bits inside if you're uncomfortable with the idea. Or even just palm them for a couple seconds. They're tiny, they'll change temperature very quickly. 
The electric motors themselves will be fine. You'll want to avoid melting snow / ice and getting water in them while they're running, of course, and you don't want to rust your bits (especially if you spread a lot of salt outside in the winter).
Stick a high power space heater next to you if you need it. Even outside, if it's not too windy, they can still provide some warmth, small campfire style.
If you're in the negative F's, you might want to store your tools inside before using them if it makes your feel comfortable, but really none of your power tools are going to stay cold for long after you start them, even without you making cuts. At least not with today's technology - maybe it'll be a problem some day if we ever get 100% efficiency electric motors and perfect, zero-resistance blades ...

