Q:

Calculate the size of furniture which are available in the picture

Is there is any software which can calculate the size of furniture which are present on picture or image For Example I have an image of furniture I want to calculate its length, width , height size of that furniture is there is any approach or way ?

A:

The general idea is to compare the dimensions of the furniture in the photo to known dimensions of another object in the photo - a ruler would be ideal, of course, but anything of known size would work. Measure the size of the known object in the photo, and that gives you a scale - for example, 1" in the photo corresponds to 1 foot in the real world. You can then measure the size of the furniture in the photo and convert accordingly (e.g., if it's 5" long in the photo, then it'd be 5 feet long in the real world). Depth is tricky in this case, as it's scale can be different, so you'd want to calculate a scale for that separately - and try to get your reference object in the same plane of the picture as your furniture. 
If you don't have an object of known size in the photo, you can hopefully use approximate sizes. For instance, there may be a person in the picture. You don't know the exact dimensions of the person, but you can estimate based on average sizes. Your calculated dimensions of the furniture will be estimates, but that may be better than nothing.
If all else fails, you can base it off of "standard" sizes for various items. Tables tend to be of a certain height (or range of heights), for instance, and bookcases tend to be within a range of depths.
Finally, consider if you actually need accurate dimensions from a photo. One of the great things about woodworking is the ability to build exactly what you need. It may be helpful to know that the table you're basing your design on is 42" square, but if you only have space for a 36" round table, then make your table 36" square. Some other dimensions may need to be adjusted to accommodate (e.g., apron lengths). Here some kind of modeling software (e.g., SketchUp) would be helpful to visualize proportions.

