Q:

Risk assessment for using draw knife/shave horse with children?

I work at a school and we have a green woodwork area. Which is awesome!
I’d like to work towards using a shave horse and draw knives with the children there, aged 8-16 years.
I’ve used shave horses and draw knives a fair bit, but have also heard from different people that they are ‘very foolproof and safe’... but then from others, that you can get horrible injuries and they may be quite dangerous, like on this compendium of Newspaper cuttings of drawknife injuries:
https://blog.lostartpress.com/2016/03/05/the-deadly-knee-hating-drawknife/
I will need a written risk assessment in order to run this activity at schools, but I can’t find any publicly available online- has anyone seen/know of one?
Is a draw knife designed to be safely used with a shave horse, or can a draw knife be safely used without a shave horse?

A:

Answering based on your comment:

Yes the school already does woodwork with children in that age bracket, using knives, bowsaws, folding saws, splitting axes and hatchets.

I would argue that a drawknife is safer than knives, safer than axes and hatches.

With pocket/shaving knives there is always the risk (and sometimes necessity) to work the blade towards your fingers/hands, slipping and cutting yourself badly.

With (carving) hatchets handling mistakes can easily endanger fingers.

Splitting axes, when used unsafely, can lead to very serious injuries, e.g. in feet/legs when a swing misses or glances off. Or in fingers/hands in the good'ol "I'll just hold this log by hand and will let go in time".

The drawknife by design requires two hands on the tool. This means:

Your hands are safe since they are in no risk of ever coming near the blade.
The workpiece needs to be fixed in a shaving horse / vice / clamp, so there is no (or lower) chance for risks due to unsafe holding of the work piece by hand. On a properly designed shaving horse your legs/knees should be well out of the way of any slipping blade, and I'd argue this is even more true for modern workbench clamps and vices.

