Q:

Cutting copper with woodworking saws

I'm working on a project which includes a copper bushing (made of 3/8" OD copper tubing--the walls of which are somewhere around 1/16"), and am considering how to batch out these parts.  The approach I'd like to take is to create a wider blank, with the bushing installed--then to resaw the blank into several individual pieces.
I'd prefer to do this on my bandsaw, which currently has a ~6tpi blade.  Would cutting the copper tubing be likely to damage the blade, or destroy the workpiece (excessive tearout, etc)?  I've cut aluminum on my circular wood blades before, but never the bandsaw--and understand pure aluminum is softer than copper.
PS) For a little more context, I'm making keychains.  Here's a prototype--it's approximately 3" long and 1/2" thick.  If you have other ideas about how to produce these please add a comment!

A:

Would cutting the copper tubing be likely to damage the blade

I doubt it since copper is one of the softest metals going, and bandsaw blades of spring-temper steel are already regularly used to saw metals, including aluminium alloys that are much harder than straight aluminium.
Obviously you'll want to test this once or twice and gauge how the cut goes with your blade, but the above should at least indicate that it's not a crazy notion and that excessive wear to the steel shouldn't be a particular worry — in fact some woods would be far more wearing due to their silica content, silica being significantly harder than copper (7 on the mohs scale versus ~3).
That said, I'd prefer to do this with a blade with much smaller teeth than on a 6TPI but it should still be possible.

First off, make sure your bandsaw is well adjusted before you start (good guide to this from Stumpy Nubs).
Bring the table up so there's minimal blade exposure (to increase support and reduce vibration).
Run the saw faster rather than slower.
Feed slowly for the same reason as the above — so that as many teeth as possible are involved in the cut.
If you're batching out a large number don't do too many cuts sequentially in case this might overheat the blade.

If you want to take an extra precaution and ensure the pipe is as soft as it could be you can quite easily anneal it1 but you'll have to abrade it inside and out to restore the bright finish. This is very quick work with modern abrasives, but dusty.
Pipe cutter?
You could of course use a pipe cutter to cut your little pipe segments, but they're not made to produce visually neat cut ends..... they only have to be good enough to work inside a pipe fitting of some kind where they're hidden from sight forever :-)
If you try to batch out correctly sized copper inserts with a pipe cutter you'll hate yourself, trust me2. If you do end up choosing to make yours this way I would deliberately cut them overlong, planning to sand off the excess from both faces once glued in and the glue has fully cured.

Deburring
Do make sure to factor in the time this will take into your calculations. Regardless of the method used to cut the pipe you'll have to deburr at least the inside of the tubing; there may not be much to choose between methods in this respect, especially with post-cut sanding added into the mix.

1 Heat to a dull red, then cool any way you like — there's no quench-hardening in copper, so you can plunge it directly into cold pickling solution if you want to proceed quickly. This has the advantage of flaking off quite a bit of the oxide skin that forms, saving you having to remove it in the next step.
2 I have to make a few copper ferrules infrequently but regularly for tool handles and even with that relatively small number doing this with a pipe cutter is the only part of the whole job that I dread. Even the tedious and sometimes tricky drilling out of the centre of the handle is less onerous.

A:

The carbide tipped blade on my Skilsaw slices through ten penny nails like they were butter.  I would consider using a radial arm or chop saw with such a blade.

