Q:

Accurately cutting large (4x8) stock to size

I'm making a worktable using pre-laminated melamine on particleboard, and have just finished 'adjusting' the size for the 3rd or so time.
The tabletop came slightly over 4x8 (and not at all square). I wanted it slightly smaller than 4x8 and tried to cut a strip off the side and end using a SKIL saw with the fence attachment.
The cuts are off by over 1/4"
I know some machining, I'm no stranger to working accurately, but for some reason never can cut large stock like this accurately.  
Whats the best way to cut this?  
Available Tools:

decent quality contractors saw, probably not wide enough for this job, with roller stands and an outfeed table
circular saw (SKIL saw) with a fence
radial arm saw

I'm just wondering how come my work's so inaccurate all the time (which  is probably a big kettle of fish) grrr....

A:

Measure, mark, place fence, measure again before you cut. E.g. stick your circular saw on the piece like you're about to start, mark the blade position, check with a tape measure before pulling the trigger and adjust fence to correct. Check again after adjusting. 
With just a circular saw for cuts like that measure distance from edge of blade (remember, blade is not infinitely thin) to edge of guide, draw a line with a square where you want to cut, move over by the blade-to-guide distance you just measured and draw another line. Clamp a long straight board along that line as a fence and ride the guide up the fence with the circular saw, double checking that the blade edge is at your cut line before you start. If you want, use a framing square to double check that your fence is clamped at 90 degrees before cutting.
Also if you have 48" and want 45, measure 45, don't measure 3 and try to cut it off.
If your stock isn't square trim both sides like this, squaring each off the same edge. Always pick one edge as a reference edge and square the other 3 off that. Use a straightedge to check your reference edge first, if you want, and if it's not straight, trim it straight.
You might find this guide useful. Describes a really simple and useful circular saw guide. Nice thing about that one is it shows you exactly where the blade edge is. If you switch blades to one with a different kerf you might want to make another base (narrower) or run the saw over the guide once after changing (wider) for an accurate edge.
Also if you're using a tape measure start from the 1" mark instead of the floppy metal end and remember to subtract 1 when reading. That's not your 1/4" but it can sometimes be 1/32" or so, esp. for cheaper tape measures.
You could use your table saw if it has enough capacity but I think a circular saw is an easier tool to work with for this kind of stuff.

A:

More of a general comment than an answer: if you are going to use large (4x8) pieces for a project such as the melamine laminate,buy and get the piece cut at Home Depot or a store with a panel cutter, save yourself the hassle of cutting it yourself. If you have to cut it yourself, you have to have a straightedge at least as long as the longest dimension you are cutting, no way around that!

