Q:

What do I need to know for basic lathe safety?

I am a complete beginner to turning, I have a set of tools arriving in a week or so, and want to make sure I'm not going to make a mistake and injure myself.
What are basic safety precautions when using a lathe to turn bowls and spindles?

A:

Wear safely glasses or a full-face mask every time you turn, no exceptions.  
Dust mask or respirator advisable normally but essential when sanding.  
Tie long hair back.  
No long sleeves.  
Take off rings, bangles, bracelets or a wristwatch.  
Consider whether it would be safer to remove any necklace, crucifix or medallion worn around the neck.  
Remember to remove chuck keys or any other tools used to tighten any parts before turning on (hang them or use a magnetic holder near the on-off switch so you can't forget).  
Check clearance of stock from the tool rest by rotating the workpiece by hand before turning the motor on.  
Start at low speed.  
Turn off lathe if making adjustments.  
Check your turning tools are sharp before using.  
Try to have two hands on the turning tools at all times (not always possible but good general practice).  
Remove tool rest before sanding.  
If doing groove burning never hold wire, cord or string in the fingers. Always wrap around scrap wood handles.

Last but not least: do not do any turning when tired, sleepy, emotionally upset or after imbibing alcohol or taking any medication that may make you drowsy or forgetful.

A:

Just adding to Graphus's excellent answer.
The piece of wood is the dangerous part.  It is moving up to 4000 rpm depending on settings and lathe.  
you will want to take small cuts, being too aggressive is dangerous, especially for  a new turner.  Being too aggressive can either stop the wood, (which isn't good for the lathe) or try and yank the turning tool out of your hand, which is very dangerous to the turner.
Securing your turning piece well is very important, I have had a couple pieces fly off the lathe, after the first one bounced off my chest (it hurt) I learned to stand off-center to the rotation of bowls.  If your lathe has a safety cage, I would recommend using it (generally on larger lathes because you can have larger pieces mounted).
You should also have a good solid stance that will let you move back and forth without losing your balance, you don't want to fall into your piece.  I would also recommend a nice thick floor mat to stand on to save your lower back. 

A:

To add to the previous points:
Just as taking light cuts is wise, reducing lathe speed is wise until confidence is gained with a given tool. Catches are much less severe with lighter cuts and slower speeds. A very good acronym for lathe tool handling:
ABC’S OF WOODTURNING
A is for anchor-put the tool on the tool rest
B is for bevel- rest the bevel of the tool on the work piece
C is for cut- bring the cutting edge into position

