Q:

Cutting sawdust relief in sled

I have a sled that I want to add a sawdust relief slot to:

That’s an unsurprising side view. It’s about 24” wide. I want to cut a slot at the red thing. The shape doesn’t really matter as long as one side of is flush with (or beyond) the fence. The size doesn’t really matter either. However, I do not want to cut into the bottom of the fence itself, as I use this sled for very thin materials sometimes.
I feel like this is obvious but for some reason I can’t think of an answer: What’s an easy way to cut this?

I don’t really have any way to get in there with the router.
The fence is too high for me to prop it up and cut a dado on the table saw and also that’s super sketchy.
I don’t really have any hand saws that can get in there given the 24” width.
The fence is taller than the flat part on my chisels.
I can’t remove the fence because it’s glued on to the base.

All I can think of is carefully, slowly, and painfully coming at it with a thick-ish cutting disk on a Dremel. Is there a better way to do this?
The fence is plywood, the base is mdf.
Like I said, this might be obvious, but I’ve been huffing xylene all day so I really have no idea.

A:

Take a blade out of a hand plane, press the back flat against the fence and run it along the width of the sled several times, creating a vertical cut into the base.  Then come back and use a chisel to create the other side of the notch.
Alternately, instead of using the flat side of your chisel against the fence flip it over and index the bevel against the fence.  It's not as big a surface, but with a large chisel it should be easy enough to feel when it's tight against the fence.
Another idea, if you don't have any hand planes, would be to take a blade out of a hacksaw, press it against the fence and work it back and forth.  I think this would be pretty slow though, as the teeth for cutting metal are very fine.  Other possibilities would be a ryoba blade, a reciprocating saw blade, or a jigsaw blade.  I might put a piece of masking tape on the fence to account for saw tooth set and prevent it from being scratched.

