Q:

Wood movement in a chair

In a Maloof-style low back chair (https://americanart.si.edu/artwork/low-back-side-chair-34536), the back legs attach directly to the seat and to the back. The grain in the seat runs back to front, while the grain in the back runs sideways. It seems like the expansion of the seat would pull apart the back joints. Why doesn’t that happen? Do the legs flex enough to accommodate the pressure?
I am trying a similar approach (not in style, but in that the legs attach directly to the seat) and wondering if I should align the seat/back grain in the same direction. Wood movement calculator for my area (Portugal) says that a beech seat could expand by up to 1cm…
Below is a prototype in cheap fir, without the back installed as I agonize over this issue. (Yes, I know the leg joints are weak, the plan is to reinforce them with wooden or brass pins.)

A:

The issue here is your calculator.
If you look at how Katz Moses explains his little widget, it assumes your furniture is outside all year round and/or your shop space is completely without climate control.
I'm guessing your beech furniture isnt also going to be beach furniture. A joke haha... so you won't actually see that much movement.
A more accurate method to calculate the movement in your piece is to calculate by hand using the actual conditions of your workspace/where the furniture will live. It's pretty simple in terms of calculation. The only work is looking up all the pertinent climate values. But even that is easy because it's all online very accessibly.
Expandong on that, if you're building in a shop that is climate controlled, as is the room where the piece will live, it is completely overkill to be working off the assumption that the piece will be subject to the full annual temperature and humidity swings of your outdoor climate when in fact it would only be subject to annual swings in the ambient moisture content of the air at a stable temperature. (JKM even notes this... but as a relative footnote for some reason. It's a non-trivial caveat as far as I can tell.)
There can still cause considerable movement though. For instance, I work in a Chicago basement. It's very dry in winter and and very moist in the summer. Even with the temperature held stable at about 64F my wood moves noticeably on wider workpiece. So JKM's "best month to assemble" recommendation is probably salient -- even if his calculation method tends towards over estimation.

