Q:

Why aren't belt sanders with sanding frames available anywhere?

I'm not sure if this question is a fit for Stack Exchange, but I'll try to make it fit.  
I bought a Bosch 1274DVS 10 years ago and I was able to get an accessory 'guide'.  The guide was a frame that went around the belt sander to help prevent 'digging' into a large work piece and helping keep it level.
My dad would like a belt sander with this optional guide, but my model is no longer available and last year I was able to find 1 that had it as an option.  I cannot find any right now.  While this isn't how people primarily use the belt sanders, I wonder why this VERY useful accessory isn't more widely available?  Do people feel confident enough to sand a large cherry tabletop unguided?  or are there other tools that have replaced the need for this?
Edit: Right after writing this question, I found the guides are called 'sanding frames'...

A:

Unfortunately, frames are a relatively rare accessory, but they do exist. I started with all belt sanders currently available at the time of this writing at Amazon (with good reviews) and Home Depot (in stock in stores or online), then looked for sanding frames. I have built a list here. In this list:

Red means frame definitely not available.
Orange means frame probably not available.
Green means definitely available.

Couple of notes:

DeWalt, Milwaukee, and Bosch no longer manufacture belt sanders, at least not under those names (DeWalt and Black & Decker are the same company).
There are sanding frames available for out-of-production sanders (Amazon has some, for example), I did not include those.
Porter-Cable, Ridgid, Ryobi, and SKIL don't seem to have frames for any of their current sanders and the internet is full of people who are sad about this.
Makita refers to sanding frames as "sanding shoes" instead, while Porter-Cable uses "sanding shoe" to refer to the base plate behind the belt.
SKIL Europe has the "Equalizer" frame for the 7600, 7675, 7610, 7620, 7630. I did not check to see if those were still in production.
Festool does not seem to have 110V versions of their sanders. You can generally find converters to your country's standard but they aren't always cheap.

If you don't feel like clicking links, here are the matching pairs I am currently aware of:

Sander: Makita 9404, Frame: Makita 193072-3
Sander: Makita 9903, Frame: Makita 193070-7 †
Sander: Makita 9920, Frame: Makita 193071-5 †
Sander: Triton TA1200BS, Frame: Triton TBSIS
Sander: Black & Decker DS321, Frame: Black & Decker 478705-00 (picture)
Sander: Festool BS 75, Frame: Festool FSR-BS 75, also part of the "E Set"
Sander: Festool BS 105, Frame: Festool FSR-BS 105, also part of the "E Set"
† Reportedly no longer officially available.

The Black & Decker one is listed as a "replacement part" so I'm not sure if it actually comes with the sander or is an optional accessory.
At the current time, vendors for all of the above can be found fairly easily by searching the internet for the relevant model numbers.
Evidence suggests that sander / frame pairs come and go, so it's entirely possible that the future will have a completely different set. There does not seem to be any historical consistency to which lines of sanders have frames available. Also, the prices vary wildly, from $15 USD to $150 USD, so you might want to shop around a bit.

There are frames for out-of-production sanders floating around as well. E.g. here is a DeWalt frame for the DW430 and DW431 belt sanders. Here is a Bosch frame that fits the 1276D and 1276DVS. 
This frame reportedly fits the 1274DVS, which I'm assuming is the same setup you purchased in the past. 

A note about sanding frames in general: While I've never owned one myself, reportedly the gotcha with sanding frames for large surfaces is that one side of the frame ends up sitting lower on the already-sanded part of the material. The SKIL "Equalizer" presumably solves this issue (it's only half a frame, a fact they seem to be extremely proud of as they patented it). So I guess you have to be careful about where you apply pressure, trying to prefer the unsanded side.

