Q:

Having a hard time ripping inexpensive 2x10 lumber. Could use a little advice

For a little while, I've been buying longer Southern Yellow Pine boards at 'ye olde orange home center' that contains pith.
The idea is that I'll rip out the pith and some surrounding material and then leave a couple inches of more stable quasi quarter-sawn or rift-sawn boards. Considering the cost of the boards, seems like a pretty sweet deal if I can hack it.
I was able to do it a few times successfully. The boards I'd rip from the original 2x10 ended up being pretty stable, barely moving even after weeks after sitting out.
The problem though, is it's REALLY hard to rip. The tension in the wood causes it to bind almost immediately. Terrifying on the table saw, especially on longer boards.
I tried cross-cutting 8' boards with my smaller battery-powered circular saw, but sometimes that saw would bind.
I tried the bandsaw just now, put a ton of effort into setup and supporting an 8' board. The blade started to bind up and I smelled a little burning, so I cut the power.
Here's a picture of my latest attempt:
https://imgur.com/wEEDAOz
In this example, I started the cut initially on the table saw, didn't go well, then tried the bandsaw and the wood almost immediately closed up. Took some doing to free the blade.
I also left these boards in my lumber rack for weeks, maybe almost 2 months. I feel like it should be reasonably acclimated to the shop environment.
I've checked my power tools for square (table saw, bandsaw) and it's pretty spot on far as I can tell.
Am I missing something obvious? I realize wood tension is a thing, but I feel like it shouldn't be this hard. Is it me? Is it the wood?
Any help would be appreciated.

A:

Wax your riving knife well with paste wax, see if it makes a big enough difference. If you don't have any paste wax just scribble thoroughly with the butt of a candle, same as is done on hand saws to reduce friction and prevent binding.
It's normal with this sort of thing to suggest checking the riving knife is parallel to the blade (as well as to recommend using a short fence, see Is a shorter rip fence safer?), but obviously the wood closing up and binding so severely on your bandsaw blade tells you the wood itself is mostly, or entirely, at fault.
That is in fact normal behaviour — not an everyday thing, but it's common enough that it should be expected a certain proportion of the time, although it's perhaps not usually this pronounced. The wood is likely 'case hardened', see Can it be predicted when a board will bind? for a little more on that.
Note the suggestion to use wedges to force the saw kerf to remain open, which is a tip that comes down to us from before the days of power tools, so we know this problem is by no means a recent phenomenon!
See also: Stress management on Wood magazine's site.

