Q:

How do I ensure that the bottom of my shelf project is level?

I'm very new to woodworking, and for my first project I decided to make a very simple shelf out of reclaimed pallet wood.
If you can imagine the pallet standing on it's side, with the planks vertical, that's where I'm getting with the shelf.
The top side is going well (yes, I regret starting top down).
The issue is that the bottom wood is rotted out and I have to cut it before completing the shelf.
I am plagued by fears that after all my measuring and cutting, that the bottom won't be level. How do I guarantee the bottom will be level? I am very new to all this and very scared of getting the cut wrong.
Is there a technique or a method to do so?
To elaborate: I have taken a pallet that has been left out in the elements for some time and partially stripped it down.
My intent is to set it upright (boards running the length are vertical). And then add more boards at the top and center for shelves. I doubt I could have it freestanding, because I suspect it might be unstable, so I'll have to make some sort of base for it.
The main issue, and why I delayed the base is because the ends of the board at the base are pretty rotted having been left in a pile of dirt and leaves for so long. I figure I need to cut out the rotted portion before anything else. I know how much length I need to cut. But with this being the base, I need it level with the ground, and the thought of not getting the measurements or cut right is making me anxious. I'm really new to this.
I have basic tools. Overall, I have a hammer, a wedge, a clamp, a handsaw, a tape measure, and a spirit level, among others. 
I need to mark 14cm from the bottom of the rotted boards, and cut those all off in a way that it's level to make a base which will support the entire shelf.
Yesterday, I had gotten as far as to mark some spots where on the boards I need to cut, but then I stopped. I just had this feeling that I didn't know enough of what I was doing to continue.
EDIT 2: I apologize for the lack of clarity. I'm not used to explaining these things. But I'll get there. I can't take a photo, because the camera on my phone is broken, but I did make a very, very crude drawing on Paint. I really hope it makes things clearer. Again, I'm still getting the hang of how to convey all this. Attached in a rough layout of what I need cut/level.

A:

I think what you are asking is:  How do I ensure all my vertical boards are the same length.  Often, this is more important than being a particular length.  Another way to say it is:  You desire precision over accuracy.  This is a common goal in cabinetry, and you should be pleased that you figured out that it's important.
Here is the trick I use to help make sure things are the same length:  Cut them all together.  I have the benefit of a chop saw, which helps immensely.  I trim one end off, just to be sure it's square, and repeat for each board.  Then, and here is the trick, you stack them up, stand the stack up on a flat surface, align the edges, and clamp them together.  You now have a bundle of boards which are perfectly aligned on a) the cut end and b) one long edge.
Since I have a chop saw, it is now trivial to mark and chop the bundle to length all in one fell swoop.  But as you have hand tools, it will be a bit more difficult.  Using your square (Don't have one?  Buy one.  This is essential.  A plastic speed square will cost about $5) and a sharp pencil, mark the bundle to length, and draw a line all the way around.
Now your bundle is marked and ready to saw.  I'll give you a couple more tricks to make this go better.  First, clamp the bundle to something solid.  You do not want it jumping around as you saw.  Hand saws can get grabby, and having your bundle secure will minimize this.  Second, take your saw and start at the top corner on the far side.  Just make a little cut, 1/4" to 1/2" deep, with the edge of the kerf exactly on the edge (the waste side, of course) of your pencil line.  You now have a little groove that will guide the saw blade, so you can turn your attention to aligning the saw with the marks.  Put the saw in the groove, close one eye, and just spend some time looking at your saw.  Sight along it long ways and make sure you are aligned with the top mark.  Take a few more flat strokes with the saw, so you've made a groove that extends the full width of your stack.  Do this carefully because this will help guide you through the rest of the cut.  You only need 1/8 to 1/4 of an inch groove.  Now, as you did above, reset the saw in the groove, and spend some more time sighting along the saw.  This time sight up-and-down, along the line drawn on the side of the stack.  Take a moment to feel the position of your arm.  Make sure your elbow and shoulder are exactly in the same plane as the cut.  You can't make a straight cut if your arm is swinging in an arc.  Once you have aligned the saw and your body, take some gentle strokes.  Blow away sawdust so you can clearly see the line.  Recheck your body position every few strokes.  Take smooth and gentle strokes... you should feel like you are brushing sawdust out of the groove.  If it seems harder than that, you are either pushing too hard, or you have the saw crooked in the kerf.  Whenever the blade binds, or you seem to be wandering off the line, STOP, and recheck your body position.
This sounds complicated, but once you have a good sense of the sequence, you can be sawing, blowing, sighting, resting, and continuing, in about a 5-second loop, and make good progress through your stack.
It does occur to me that your pallet may still be assembled, and you may be unwilling to disassemble it to make a stack of uprights.  If you want it square, you might have to disassemble it.  But if you can establish that it is square at the top corners, you can use the principle of a rectangle having equal diagonals to make your bottom square, and use the tricks I've mentioned about sawing to ensure a straight and true cut all the way across the bottom.

