Q:

How to cut chevron detail on mjolnir handle

I'm trying to achieve a similar effect to the handle on this:

I want to do this entirely in wood. How would I go about cutting that on a wood lathe? Or any way for that matter...

A:

I think this might most easily be created by hand carving, as least for most of the careful shaping work.
If you want to create a good facsimile of the MCU mjolnir, close examination of the hero prop in one or more of the films, along with any good licensed collector pieces, would be advisable, rather than going by the 'blueprint' which has a host of failings1.
Although the following collector piece is a bit cheesy I think it represents the chevrons fairly accurately and it highlights that the 'blueprint' is highly flawed here:

Because this is not a spiral feature (a winding) and instead individual metal pieces with lateral symmetry2 I don't believe it's possible to cut this detail simply using a router and rotating the handle, either under power or carefully by hand.
Also note that in the original these are not an incised detail, they are a raised detail.
How exactly you choose to represent this in wood is of course up to you, but simply carving or routing a single groove per chevron seems to me to produce the least satisfying representation (while still being a perfectly reasonable way to add grip to an otherwise smooth shaft it must be said).
Personally, at the least I would incise two small, shallow parallel grooves either side of each chevron. But the most faithful recreation is for these features to end up raised, which obviously entails removing all of the wood around them.
This is a lot of work by hand, but I think some setup using a horizontally mounted router could be created to do the bulk of this removal, moving the handle by hand with the router fixed in place.
Safety note
Even if a very small round-nosed or core-box bit is fitted to the router, and even with very shallow projection it's still extremely dangerous to have an exposed router bit sticking out unguarded while it's under power, so the utmost caution must be exercised if you cannot fit some kind of guard.
A guard of acrylic or polycarbonate would be easy to create and fit to such a routing jig and I highly advise doing this.
Without such a guard in place personally I would make the handle very much over-length (double?) so that I could manipulate the workpiece with my bare hands3 while keeping my fingers safely inches away (10cm +) from the bit while nibbling away the excess material.
Final shaping would be done by hand, using as much rasping/filing/scraping and/or sanding as you feel necessary to create a smooth transition and surface finish you're happy with.

1 Not the worst of which is the poor representation of the handle details you're asking about!
2 Not simple circumferential features, i.e. not ovals.
3 Gloves and rotating power tools being generally considered an absolute no-no, because of the danger of the material being snagged and actually dragging you into the spinning workpiece or tool.

