Q:

Tough finish for a painted wooden toy box?

I have made a nice wooden toy box from pine and plywood. I'd like to paint it.
It will get bashed around a bit! So I'm looking to achieve a tough finish.
I've done some research and am currently planning to spray it with acrylic paint (Liquitex) and then varnish it with gloss acrylic varnish.
Does that sound like a good approach and are there better ways to do it?

A:

am currently planning to spray it with acrylic paint (Liquitex) and then varnish it with gloss acrylic varnish.
Does that sound like a good approach and are there better ways to do it?

If the gloss varnish you refer to is any of the Liquitex products then there are likely better ways to go. To start with artists' varnishes are not typically made for toughness of the same class as furniture varnishes.
Furniture varnishes, especially polyurethane/poly, are made to be tough, intended to withstand daily handling, regular cleaning (which is surprisingly damaging to finishes), even direct contact with the unglazed surfaces of mugs, plates etc. and not just hold up for years but for a decade or longer ideally.
You'll want a waterbased finish specifically, all oil-based varnishes are significantly yellowish/amber coloured and will impart this colouring even in a thin coating (and you'll want more than a thin coating for good protection). Waterbased finishes on the other hand are referred to a "water white", and while the liquid finish will be milky in the container it will dry absolutely clear and colourless. Four coats should be considered a minimum here; I would use more personally.
I won't recommend a specific product in part because finish choices can be very dependent on factors that include local availability, cost/perceived value, and even brand recognition. But as a general point I will say don't buy the first thing that comes to hand at the DIY place/home centre or hardware store......  typically the cheapest consumer-level products are cheap for a very good reason! Not that you always get what you pay for with finishes — looking at you "hardwax oils" — but that's another day's discussion ^_^

A quick word about the paint
Artists' acrylic paints can have excellent colour-retention properties but they're not made to be physically tough and there are arguments in favour of also using a tough paint underneath a tougher varnish where you want to maximise durability.
However, as your project is partly pine this is probably overkill — stronger paints being ideally suited to harder substrates, especially metals.

