Q:

Furniture name for waist-high floor-sitting shelf cabinet thing

I'm working on this thing (60" wide x 41.75" high [elbow height] x 14" deep) (shelves on left and right are adjustable, I might ditch the little border thing on top):

It's purpose is general storage near an entry way, the top will primarily be used for mail, documents, etc. The large space is for storage baskets.
When I try to tell people what I'm making, I find that I'm saying "it's this shelf sort of table-y storage thing on the floor, or something, or... whatever, let's talk about something else".
Now, I've seen furniture like this before. Cabinets that sit on the floor with shelves and stuff and a waist/elbow high top. My question is, what are these called? I want to say "I am building a _______."
I went through Wikipedia's list of furniture types but I couldn't find it. There are "entertainment centers", but that's not actually what this is for, and it's a little high even if I were going to put entertainment stuff on it. It's kind of like a sideboard, maybe? It's not a dresser, there's no drawers.
I'm sure this has a name I just don't know what it is.

A:

I would call that a credenza: 

A sideboard, buffet, or bookcase patterned after a Renaissance credence; especially: one without legs

Wikipedia adds:

particularly one where a central cupboard is flanked by quadrant glass display cabinets

which I might generalize to "central cupboard flanked by shelves", I'm not sure I'd require "glass display cabinets".  Looking through Google images, that seems to apply mostly to Victorian-styled cabinets.

They're typically lower than your 41" height, but that's otherwise a credenza.  Historically, they were used to hold food and utensils for serving in a dining room, but they're now common as an office storage add-on to a main desk or a decorative/storage cabinet that goes against a wall, and is not mounted under a counter or as an end table.

A:

There are moments when it is incumbent upon a modern people to invent new terms :)
I suggest "entry hutch".

