Q:

Measuring exact point to drill hole in wood panel

I have a chipwood panel. I need to drill holes into it at specific locations. A small error is acceptable which means that I do not need to use a CNC machine for this.
Here is a diagram that shows something similar to what I will eventually be doing.

Questions:

What tool do I need to use to measure and mark the exact locations? Using measuring tape is not proving easy. I can't use vernier calipre here too.

Also, right now once I know location of the hole, I put a + screw driver on it and hit it with hammer. This helps to drill hole in that location later. Is there a better tool or method to mark drill hole location?

A:

High accuracy isn't needed here, so I think just eyeballing the hole positions could be perfectly fine.
A step up from this would be to 'finger gauge':

If you do really want consistency then a simple marking guide made from card would work well:

Align the edges to the workpiece, mark through the hole, rinse and repeat.
For a step up, I present the 'deluxe' model, with Auto Edge Align™:

Even made from card a guide like this can survive in a workshop environment for a surprising amount of time, easily lasting through multiple projects that have the same marking requirements.
This is similar in principle to some drilling guides which are used to mark fixed hole locations for dowels, shelf pins etc. on repeat projects. Sometimes these are made from thin sheet metal, but more typically hardboard or thin ply/MDF is used in a woodworking context.

A:

Tape measures are usually used by carpenters where 1/8" or 1/16" is more than accurate enough. Woodworkers often use precision rulers to get accuracy of 1/32" or 1/64" inch when needed but will frequently use a simple tape measure because 1/16" is more than accurate enough. If that's still not accurate enough for you, you can purchase a machinist's rule that will give you accuracy to a couple of mil (1 mil = 1/1000")[1].
To use the tape measure, you simply hook the end over the thing to be measured, pull until you get a few inches past the desired distance, make sure they tape is square to the edge (eyeball it is fine), then mark at the distance desired.[2]
If you need to measure 3" in from each edge to make a center point, measure 3" from one edge and use a square [3] to draw a line parallel to the edge you just measured from. Along that line, measure 3" from the perpendicular edge and make a mark. You now have a crosshair at 3" from each edge.
Now that you have a pencil mark at your desired drill location, it's recommended to use an awl, a nail, a screw, or other fine, pointed device to make a starting hole for your drill bit so that it goes right where you want it and doesn't wander off. You align the point where you want the hole and push until you've got a bit of a dimple. You then put the drill bit into the dimple and (slowly) start drilling until you've got your hole started, then you can speed up.
Personally, I've used one of a couple of different size awls over the years. I just recently got a spring loaded punch that works even better. I set the point of the punch where I want it and start pushing. Normally, that's all there is to it. With the spring loaded punch, when I push hard enough, the spring fires and an internal hammer hits the punch making a much deeper mark with far less effort than trying to do it by hand. Making a good mark in pine isn't difficult, making one in oak or maple is far more difficult.
To accurately drill through your two pieces of material and get your holes to line up, you can clamp them together so that one mark will get you through both pieces of material at the same time. If you don't want to do that, you can drill through one piece, then lay that one on the other piece and either put the bit directly into the existing hole and drill through from there, or using a fine point pencil or pen, mark the hole location onto the other piece and separately drill the other hole.
I believe you'll get the most accuracy by clamping the pieces and drilling both holes in one pass of the drill. If you should happen to not drill at exactly 90° to the surface of the first piece, you hole in the second piece will still be precisely lined up with the hole in the first and at the same angle. Either of the 2-step drilling processes can leave the holes at slightly different angles and, if you're drilling with tight tolerances, could make it difficult to get your hardware through the hole.

[1]Good luck trying to work with wood to that accuracy, but you're certainly welcome to give it a shot if you want. Wood is a natural product with a more-or-less random grain that is going to cause your measurement to the mil to end up wandering off. You can work metals to those kinds of tolerances, and you car's engine is thankful for it.
[2] You'll notice that the tab at the end of a tape measure is loose. It's that way on purpose. The looseness precisely correlates to the thickness of the tab. You hook it over the edge of something and pull and get an accurate measurement from the inside of the tab. You push the tab against the inside of something and get an accurate measurement from the outside of the tab.
[3]A Speed Square™, a tri-square, a framing square, a combination square - it doesn't really matter, they'll all work and they all have advantages & drawbacks.

