Q:

Gluing veneered panels together to make a box

I'm trying to glue two panels of wood together at a 90 degree angle (the project is to make a box).  I have veneer w/ adhesive on the back that I can iron on.
My question is, what is the best order of operations for assembling and veneering?
Specifically :

Should I apply veneer to each panel first and glue the panels on the veneered surface?
Should I apply veneer to each panel first avoiding the gluing surfaces and then glue?
Should I apply veneer to each panel first and use a router or other tool to remove veneer from the gluing surfaces and then glue?
Glue it together and then apply the veneer and hope it fits perfectly?

I just used cheap 2X4s for the core. I have MDF but I wanted to see if I could make the 2X4s into a good sized panel for fun and as practice.
The veneer is red oak (search on amazon: "WOOD-ALL Red Oak Wood Veneer Sheet, ‘A’ Grade Plain Sliced/Flat Cut, 24” x 96” with a 10 Mil Paperback/PSA Peel and Stick – Easy Application for Any Restoration").
For equipment, I'm pretty well setup: mitre saw, small table saw, router (table, fixed base, plunge base, dovetail/boxjoint jig), planer, jointer, vice, clamps, etc. My jig-saw is out of service, though.
As for my skill level: I'm a beginner. I'm trying to tackle more and more advanced projects.
For this project, it's a box.
Well, specifically a baby changing table. The box has no top, and there is a divider in the middle. I'm also hoping to do box joints where the 4 sides meet. I attached a practice box joint that I cut with the veneer applied prior. It was my first attempt at a box joint.
The other picture is the roughly cut core material forming the overall shape. The pieces are planed to 1/2 inch; just not cut to length/width yet.
BTW, if the core material is a poor choice I'm ok with it to learn. But if I'm wasting fancy veneer let me know if it's a terrible choice and I can paint this one and use MDF and veneer next time.

A:

After looking at your pictures and seeing what you're after, I think I've got a better idea of what you're doing.
If it were me, I'd cut all the box joints first. Your heavy power tools that you'd be using to cut them are far more likely to tear up your nice veneer layer if you were to apply it prior to cutting the joints.
Usually veneer is applied last, once the project is assembled. You apply a slightly oversize piece so that your cuts don't have to be 100% accurate and because you usually adhere it with a contact cement that will stick on touch. I see you're using a preglued veneer, but the process should be the same. By being oversize, it's not fatal if you don't get it aligned 100% accurately, you just trim to fit.
Glue up your bottom panel. If you're veneering the inside of it, apply your veneer before attaching the sides to it, otherwise, you'll have to have a 100% accurate cut, dropped 100% accurately in place.
Once your bottom panel is ready to go, prepare your sides to attach it. If you're cutting dadoes for the bottom to fit in, make them to fit the thickness of the bottom plus the veneer, if you're simply making a butt joint, you're already good to go.
Once you've got the bottom on, you can then veneer the sides as normal.
You seem to be concerned about gluing wood together once the veneer is on it. You're gluing up a real wood veneer to wood, so this shouldn't be an issue, no matter what kind of glue you're using to attach the wood to wood. There's possibility that the PSA holding the veneer on could detach, leaving the veneer behind. I'm not sure how significant this possibility is, but since your child may be laying on the table at the time of disengagement, I'd suggest adding some mechanical fasteners, just to be safe. Screws or nails (I'd go with screws) up through the bottom and into the sides will take some/most of the stress on the joint, meaning that the PSA on the veneer won't be taking it.

