Q:

Should I use sandpaper or Steel Wool between coats of polyurethane?

Polyurethane is typically my go-to finish, but I'd always just kind of done it how dad showed me rather than reading the instructions, sanding with fine grain between coats, or not at all if it's still "tacky." It always seems to turn out fine, but recently I read the back of the can and it said to wait 4 hours between coats (i.e. not tacky) and to use fine (000 if I recall correctly) steel wool rather than sandpaper between coats. Is this one of those "recommended but not required" sort of things, or have I been doing something which will bite me later?

A:

It doesn't matter except if you're using water-based poly.  If so, the water will rust the steel wool fibers that end up stuck in the pores of the wood and cause rust spots.  
I prefer steel wool because it lasts longer and conforms to whatever curves you are smoothing.

A:

If you are happy with the results, then continue as you have! 
Using steel wool or sand paper allows you to create a uniform surface for the next coat of polyurethane, which generally looks nicer, more professionally, etc. 
In my experience, assuming the finish is dry, there isn't a difference other than the coarseness of the sand paper or steel wool. For some projects, a first pass with a coarse grade and then a finer grade gives a smoother texture to the last coat, especially if the last coat will be thin and glossy. This is most critical where the surface will reflect light, like a table top, since the reflections will show any imperfections.
And I have used both sand paper and steel wool on the same project depending what is on hand, generally sand paper first and then steel wool.
I have noticed some finishes (rarely) have a slight issue with the trace amounts of oil in the steel wool. I haven't seen this problem with polyurethane, only with very thin shellac. I haven't had issues with rust myself but glw's observation makes sense. 

A:

Either is fine. I tend to use steel wool more often and that is mainly due to the fact that I refinish furniture on a regular basis... and there are curves and grooves that sandpaper just can't handle.
That said if you are working on something old that has damage to it... sand paper can be a lifesaver because it doesn't snag. I have had to do significant rework because the wool snagged on a corner with a little gouge and it pulled off some wood...
So for curves definitely wool. For a big flat surface, paper works great too.
One other note, the higher the sheen the finer I go. For example with a gloss finish (which I would almost never recommend... unless you have a basketball court maybe) I would use 0000 steel wool whereas with a satin finish I tend towards 000.

