Q:

I accidentally removed some paint from my child's toy with surgical spirits while disinfecting it, what went wrong?

So during the coronavirus pandemic I have been spraying any package contents I receive with 80% surgical spirit if it is plastic and nonedible. 
Today my daughter received a couple of new toys in the mail, and I sprayed them as I usually do. One was plastic, the other was wood, and I honestly didn't even think this would be a bad idea. Now I know better. 
Fortunately I realised what was going on pretty quickly when I picked a piece up and it was suddenly very tacky. I separated out the pieces and set them out to dry. 
I understand a bit of woodworking and have done some in the past. I understand that the alcohol must have been a solvent for the toy paint. However I'd like to understand better what happened in order to avoid this happening in the future. 
Particularly I'd like to understand:

What kind of paint this is that this happens to (or a family of paints, or even all paints)? Is this common among paints?  
Is this method appropriate for some paints, or just a big no-no in general.  
Is it safe to use simple soap and water on this toy instead (or the wood bits of it)? (I would be concerned about the paint being a water based paint and coming off, or the wood reacting to the water in some way).

Other things I just realised:

I'm using 'paint' indiscriminately here to mean the layer(s) of stuff on the wood, but it could be a finish or varnish or another word I don't know.  
There could have been another finish on the toy, but I don't think so because the paint colour came off on my fingers.  

(I'm trying to avoid the probably offtopic question of "how do I disinfect a wooden toy from the coronavirus" because this is a woodworking site, not a medical one but I would like to understand better what went wrong so I can  clean wooden toys properly in the future.)

A:

Alcohol is a strong solvent, and full-strength it'll damage almost any commonly found finish to some degree, even so-called water-based finishes. Left long enough it can even damage the wood underneath (though this is an extreme case.)
Toys are often finished with acrylic paint, as these are usually the types allowed by the manfucturers for items intended to be gnawed on by babies. Acrylic paint is soluble in alcohol. But even "latex" formulations can soften with strong alcohol. Obviously, varnishes intended to be mixed with alcohol will also be damaged if sprayed with alcohol later.
There are some enamels that, once cured, will not be affected to any noticeable degree by alcohol.
To answer your hidden question, use soapy water to clean and disinfect items. Soapy water is very effective at destroying the fatty acids surrounding viruses, which destroys them completely. You don't need fancy disinfectants. Just get a spray bottle and some concentrated all-purpose surface cleaner from the hardware store. Mix it with water to the recommended concentration on the label. Spray, wipe clean, let dry.

