Q:

What finish should I use to make a bowl "microwave-safe"?

I want to give a turned bowl to someone as a gift, but I know they will inevitably use these bowls in the microwave.
From my own experience of force-drying wood in the microwave, I know it can get hot to the touch after about 30 seconds, depending on moisture level. 
Are there any finish solutions for making "microwave-safe" wood items for serving food on?

A:

Are there any finish solutions for making "microwave-safe" wood items for serving food on?

It's not so much a question of "microwave-safe" finishes as "microwave-safe" materials.
Microwaves work by exciting water molecules, thereby increasing their energy (i.e., heating them up).  The reason your wooden bowl gets hot is because of the water trapped in the wood fibers.
I would strongly advise against microwaving a finished wood bowl for not only the risk of burning one's self on it, but also because the rapid heating of the water in the bowl can cause it to crack.

I want to give a turned bowl to someone as a gift, but I know they will inevitably use these bowls in the microwave.

Very clearly tell the intended recipient that wooden bowls are not microwave safe.  If someone uses the bowl improperly and it breaks, yes, that sucks for them, but you're not at fault having told them.  Common sense has to factor into things sometimes.
By the way, not only would I tell them to not microwave the bowl, but don't soak it in water, and don't put it through the dishwasher either.

A:

I would seriously suggest you just get them a glass or plastic bowl if you want to gift them one you know they'll want to use in a microwave :-)
Regular microwaving is not a good environment for wood since it'll heat it and drive out moisture. Up to a point this doesn't do any harm as you'll have some idea about from your force-drying experience, but if you've ever overdone the microwaving as I have (causing the water in the wood to boil) you'll know there are some issues. 
First thing I'll mention is the one that will be most immediately apparent: the smell. If they do overheat the bowl even just once and it boils the intrinsic water they'll create wood steam and the smell of this is not exactly conducive to fine dining (think paper mill and you'll have some idea)! Worst still, that odour will linger in the microwave for months. Trust me that's no exaggeration, I speak from experience.
In terms of the safety of the bowl, past a certain level and the wood will end up way dryer than is natural. With repeat use the moisture level will cycle up and down excessively (most especially if they wash it). I think you could bet money on this leading to warping or cracking, even if the wood used in the turning was straight-grained and clear.
More seriously given enough microwave exposure there's even a risk of fire. If the wood happened to be very dry already, from being microwaved recently and/or because of local conditions, and it was then microwaved for a good amount of time you could get localised scorching. And once the wood is charred it's just a small step to ignition (same basic principle as char cloth).

