Q:

How can I cut this notch?

I over-designed this workbench and ended up with this terrible piece of wood. Don't ask - let's just play: 'how would you cut this?'
Best idea I have is to chisel it out with a moderately sharp Dewalt 1" chisel.  However, given that I don't have a great way to support this piece, that will likely end up mostly bad.
What would you do?

A:

Best idea I have is to chisel it out with a moderately sharp dewalt 1" chisel.

This is primarily a chiselling job, all such shaping is. And a 1" chisel would be a sane choice for the work, guessing the dimensions of the piece1. Moderately sharp though, not so much — you want to give chisels your absolute best sharpening efforts. Lots of prior Q&As here if you need help upping your sharpening game.
You can saw off the majority of the waste if you can or want (simply because it reduces the amount of work needing to be done by chiselling) but this could be done entirely by chisel if preferred. I would however recommend mostly establishing the bottom or shoulder with a saw cut. If you happen to have an oscillating multi-tool this could be one of those rare opportunities to use it for its unique plunge-cutting action!
After that you can split/chop the bulk off and then carefully pare the last of the wood away. Pay attention to the run of grain as you work so the chisel doesn't 'dive'.
In case it does need to be emphasised job #1 here is careful marking out! You need accurate layout lines to pare towards, very very much so if this needs to be a close fit to mating pieces.

However, given that I don't have a great way to support this piece, that will likely end up mostly bad.

You've got to arrange some kind of solid workholding to do this sort of thing. If you're doing the initial sawing by hand just the vertical saw cuts would be challenging to complete if the workpiece can't be held firmly, but it will be an absolute nightmare trying to chisel into a piece that's moving around on you, and you could easily cut yourself as a result.
I presume you have some clamps already, so just try to figure out a clamping arrangement that fixes this to something reasonably sturdy2. This could even be something like a chair, and you can kneel on the seat to help keep the chair from moving as you work, or possibly push it into the corner of the room so it can't move away from you at all.
If you don't have any clamps yet don't despair, if necessary you can use a twist of rope or strong cord, along with a stick for winding and/or some wedges to take up slack, to provide good clamping.

Does it really need to be this shape?
Doing this would certainly be a good exercise in chisel work, which you might relish as a learning experience. But obviously it's needlessly complex for what is in essence a utility piece — a workbench.
Just be sure you can't redesign whatever joint this forms a part of, to be a more sensible, straightforward joint that won't potentially form a stumbling block in the middle of construction.

1 It's always best to use the largest chisel available for any given job, which is why I bought an inexpensive 2" chisel when I had the chance..... this remains the only chisel I bought new :-)
2 When I first started out and didn't have a vice, I would regularly clamp a substantial piece of wood to the top of my Workmate and then clamp to that, to provide as close to a vice-like grip as I could get on vertical pieces.

A:

It's a job for a chisel, but not a chisel alone. Lay out the 6 cut lines on the surface of the uncut timber, and then use a sharp handsaw to cut close to the lines that join at the three outside corners of the waste area. Then you can carefully chisel out the remaining gross waste by cutting the cross grain cuts a bit at a time, followed by long grain cuts to remove significant pieces. Finally, pare to the lines to get your final conformation.
Needless to say, sharp matters a great deal here. Time spent getting that 1" chisel razor sharp will be repaid when you start cutting.
You want a solid surface to work on, and a clamp to hold your stock.   A heavy table or tool surface is fine. If you don't have a clamp, I'd recommend getting an Irwin Quick-Grip style bar clamp, or its equivalent. You'll never regret having it in your shop.
It'd be very worth your time to take a look at a few of Dylan Iwakuni's videos on YouTube to get a sense for how complex joinery cuts can be made with just a saw and sharp chisels before going hammer and blade at this. My description is probably hard to follow; his demonstrations are not, and are woodworking poetry in the bargain.   You won't get his precision results with the tools you've got, but with a little patience, you can get very close.

