Q:

Need help understanding workbench design and build process

I recently asked a question here regarding the use of 1x4s rather than 2x4s for a laminated workbench top and got some helpful advice. I decided to go with 2x4s, and now it's time to build. Before I do, I'd like to run my general plan past this community to see how it sounds.
I plan on laminating 16 5' long 2x4s to make a 5x2' bench top.  I'll use a plane to skim the face of each board to help the gluing process, use my 6 5' long bar clamps to hold the glue-up together overnight, and then build the base.
For the base, I have 8 3' 2x4s to laminate in pairs for the legs, the depth of the legs being 3.5" each and the width being 3" each. I have enough material for two sets of pairs of laminated 2x4 stretchers, one at the top of the legs, to be tenoned into the leg mortises, and one at the bottom of the legs to be tenoned in.  Then I have enough for 4 sets of 2 laminated 5' 2x6s to run the length of the bench, also tenoned into the legs. 
So, I'll end up with a frame that is 2'x5' with fairly stout legs and good bracing across and along the depth. Then I'd like to use dowels to attach the top, so it could be removed to be semi-portable. Those would be between the top and the stretchers on the left and right sides, either one on each side or a pair on each side.
Is there anything wrong with this design? Most designs I see have the top overlapping the base by a few inches on each side, especially when considering the length. Is this a requirement?
Edit: here's a quick sketch of my idea: 

A:

I made a bench similar in construction to what you describe only a bit bigger ( 8' long with two 1' wide top slabs separated by 1 1/2" gap - roubo style split top).  I made mine with 2x6 instead of 2x4s; I use it for hand planing so I wanted it to be a bit heftier. It also has a leg vise and an embedded wagon vise running along the front face of the top. I have several considerations for you:

It's good to skim the boards in the planer to insure flatness.  Do not plane the top and bottoms until your slab is glued.
Do not try to glue up all the top pieces at once. I worked with pairs first and after they set I glued pairs of pairs etc. to get to the final width.  When I got up to 12" width I ran the top through the planer to get the top nearly flat and get rid of the rounded edges of each board.
My stretcher tenons (connected with the legs to a depth of 2" and were tight to insure maximum glue contact.  I did not need to add an apron brace at the top of the legs.  If the base needs more rigidity you can add a top brace later on the inside face of the leg ( see next comment).
I made my legs 3 boards wide (4 1/2) so that the mortices for the stretchers could be 1 1/2" wide.  I simply notched the middle leg board to the depth of the tenon and avoided custom chiseling.
Keep the face of the legs and top front and back face flush.  You can clamp larger pieces to the face that way.  
I routed a mortice on the underside of my top to snugly receive the legs as tenons to a depth of 1 1/2". The top just sits on the legs but because of the weight the top and legs act well as a unit. I would allow a little extra width on the mortices to allow the table top width to expand and contract against the fixed width leg structure. (My split top  absorbs that expansion and also serves to hold tools and provide a stop for planing materials. (see roubo table designs on the net for details).
Allowing the top to overhang the legs on the sides will provide good clamping opportunities and make the leg structure more ridgid due to the shorter spans.
The 'workbench" tag wiki has a couple greate references books for design and construction details
For me it's all about clamping my work so I included the vises, as well as strategically placed holdfast holes.

After you added your design sketches I want to add the following:

You didn't clarify what you will use the bench for. In this answer, I assume it will be for heavier woodworking tasks.
Although not to scale, I assume the 2x4s are long side vertical.  This adds a great deal of strength to the bench. If the bench is only 1 1/2" thick it will not be as suitable for heavy loads or work such as planing.
2x4s will work at the lower level for all 4 sides.  2x6s are not needed.  Keep the bottom of the 2x4s up 5"-6" (or more) so that you can get a broom under it.
If the top is 3 1/2 thick then the 2x6 aprons should not be necessary if the legs tenon into the top 1 1/2".  
The tenons of the sides into the legs are shown smaller than the 2x4s.  I made mine full sized to increase the gluing surface.  This was easier to construct and added strength for heavy duty work. 
The top need only overhang the legs enough that you can use clamps at the full depth of the edges.  4"-6" each side should be more than enough for most wood clamps.
When looking at your side view, note that the top will expand and contract while the legs assembly will not.  Your connection between the two should allow for the differential movement.
You can add a shelf on the lower leg supports for storage.

Good Luck

