Q:

What are the best ways to glue thin edges?

I'm in the planning stage of building a bookshelf with cabinet doors. I'd like to use alternating vertical strips of woods of contrasting colors for an art deco look. The obvious way to do that is to use fairly thick strips for more glue area, but that makes a heavy door.
So, I had the idea of using thinner strips, if it will hold together, and building it as frame and panel. (I'd still need the frame so there's a place to mount the hinges.)
My first idea was to glue thin strips to very thin plywood, but that risks the strips making the plywood flex, since the strips would expand and the plywood doesn't.
Another idea is to reinforce the back of the panel with cloth, but that makes the inside of the panel ugly , and may still have warping issues.
A variation on the reinforcing cloth idea is to put strips on both sides of the cloth. I actually tried this out with some scraps, but I don't know whether it would scale well.
Finally, I could edge glue it without any special reinforcement, and count on the frame to provide structural support for the panel, possibly with reinforcing cloth wrapped over the top and bottom edges and hidden in deeper than usual frame grooves.
Which of these options are workable and practical?
-
One aesthetic point in favor of the heavy slab is that the frame would kind of detract from the art deco look. If the frame idea doesn't work well, I might just settle for that design.
Afterthought: A variation on the slab door idea would be to make the first few strips thick enough for the hinge hardware, and the rest thin to reduce the weight, and use metal C-channel at the top and bottom (through a groove in the thick section) to keep it from flexing. 

A:

I agree with your concern that frame might not give an art deco appearance.  
The thinnest panel I would recommend without a frame is 3/4" thick for widths up to about 30". It is important that you keep your individual strips at a max of 3" and orient them so that the grain directions alternate between pieces so that if one wants to warp to the inside, the adjacent pieces want to warp in the opposite direction.  In addition, I have some concern about 7' high continuous panels.  Each of the wood pieces in the panel will have to have very straight grain from one end to the other if you hope to have the panels flat remain flat. 
I would recommend 2 stacked doors if your design can accommodate them. There are plenty of ways you could introduce a horizontal design element in art deco style with panel doors above and below. In fact such an element could be associated with a fixed center shelf which would also add stability to the cabinet carcass.

