Q:

How to effectively fix a crack in a turned bowl

I recently came into possession of a wonderful turned maple bowl however there is one downside. There is a small crack about halfway through the bowl. The crack goes fully from top to bottom but not fully left to right. The bowl is not about to fall apart but I think after a while of putting fruit into it, or several used as a salad serving bowl the crack would spread and weaken. 
Is it possible to glue this and (bonus points) glue it with a food safe glue?

A:

I suspect that it actually isn't going to get any worse.  However, what is generally accepted practice is to use epoxy. If you want to hide the crack and patch you can mix in some sawdust, in this case maple sawdust would be best.  As an alternative, you could mix in some other colorful stuff to make it pop. Ground turquoise is a common choice for this.
Of course any glue or epoxy will leave a bit of a mess and will need to be cleaned up. You might end up needing to refinishing the whole piece. If that is the case, nut oils are food safe and so is carnuba wax, which is hypoallergenic.

A:

If it were mine, I think I'd either try a tinted epoxy or epoxy-based filler.  Or I'd accept the crack but stabilize it with a butterfly inlay... or just accept the crack as part of the character of the piece.

A:

Frank Howarth made a great video about how he "repaired" a cracked wooden bowl.

The rough turned maple bowl that I wanted to finish next had cracked. The crack was at an angle to vertical when the bowl was sitting normally. I cut out the section of the bowl with the crack on the band saw. Then I build a new segmented piece to take the place of the section. In this new section, I continue the idea of the chevron pattern, and add more detail. I give the chevron pattern branches by adding alternating pieces of birch and walnut wood on either side of the pattern. I also add a walnut ring at the top of the bowl so the segmented pattern has something to die into. Then I turn the whole bowl down to a finished piece.

He made a feature out of it

You'd have to be ambitious to do what he did but it might serve as inspiration.

