Q:

Joining wood at an angle

To give you an idea of scale, as it give context, I am referring to the roof of an open bird feeder.

Currently I make 3 holes that I drill perpendicular to where the two pieces meet. Getting a screw at that angle ends up removing a lot of wood and creating some ugly holes on both sides (Picture only shows one. I'm new at SketchUp).
In this case I suppose that strength is not an issue but I would hope to go for something other that just glue. 
Is there another way to try and join these two pieces securely without causing too much damage to the outside of the structure. I don't even know how I would do this from the bottom. Maybe with an odd shape of wood to match the angle of the roof?

A:

If you'd like to go the glue-only route, a lock miter might be just the thing.  They are available as router bits and make a profile similar to this photo: 

I could not say for certain whether the angle is complimentary to your design, most lock miters I find are for 90 degree joints which might be a pretty severe angle for a roof.
@Doresoom mentioned in the comments that 22.5 degree lock miters are also fairly common which would produce a 45/135 degree joint, which would provide more gentle of a slope for a roof.

A:

Using a plow plane, you can quickly and easily make a groove and tongue joint like this:

If you want more stability, you can make that a dovetail, either starting from the groove and tongue or using hand saw and chisel only (or, well, a milling table!).
The tongue or dovetail should be perpendicular to the miter like so:

Of course a groove with loose tongue or biscuits are possible (and easier to manufacture) too.

A:

A biscuit joint would allow you to join these pieces without any screws while providing more strength than a joint where only the faces are glued together.

Typically you require a special tool, a biscuit joiner to cut the hole but it can be done by hand too.
A similar but simpler method is to just drill holes and use a dowel instead.

