Q:

Difficulty level in restoring wood bench?

For a while I've been looking for someone to restore the furniture in the picture. Without the caning, the cheapest I found was $350. They would take the furniture apart, sand and repaint, and then glue it back together to strengthen joinery.
I know nothing about restoring furniture, much less wood, but I'm thinking that at $350, I can at least try.
So, my question, is restoring this bench something that I can, or should, do? I'm trying to be a DIY guy, but I'm really a beginner with any of this. I'm a technical guy, so my construction/DIY abilities are very limited.
I already have someone that can do the caning.

A:

This isn't very answerable, as suggested by the comments you are getting. But we can make some general statements about this project.
First of all, whatever you are doing right now: stop. Put the tools down and take a step back. Again, the comments are telling you that at least some of your assumptions are wrong. It is very rare that "refinishing" would require taking joinery apart. You should also set some limits and requirements. Are you refreshing the caning, or living with it? Do you want to change the colour or finish, or is this a refresh of the existing finish? In short, how far do you think you are going to go? Down to bare wood, or just freshen things up?
This is important because joinery, finishing, caning, etc. all take different skills at different times, each with their own tools and techniques.
Only you can answer these questions, but you should keep in mind what your limit is, and as you assess this job adjust expectations accordingly.
You say that you are not experienced, but that you grok technical stuff. Ok, let's work with that.
I'd suggest going to a library and taking out a few books on refinishing wood furniture. Just get a feel for how this stuff is done, and the sorts of tools and techniques you will be expected to use. Pay attention to the order of operations this sort of small project requires, and where the critical steps are.
Then, start building a list of stuff you need. Even modest refinishing will require quite a few different tools, consumables, and chemicals. But only when you know what you want to do will this list emerge. You should now have a decent idea of what steps have to be taken in some order to get the results you want.
Third, find a place where you can leave this stuff undisturbed while the project is active. Even modest refinishing can be quite messy, so you want a place to keep things contained. Pay attention to which of your supplies can and can't be stored in an unheated place, if you choose a place that can freeze occasionally.
As for specifics, come back here with those specific questions as you progress.

