Q:

Do these discrepancies actually matter?

As some of you may know, I am making my first ever project: a board game table. It's not going so well! Here are some pictures: 

The red lines on the first picture are the drawer railings outside to outside on the top. The blue lines are the drawer railings outside to outside on the bottom. I have a few questions regarding my table and a few issues that maybe you guys have good ways to sort out. 

Do these measurements matter a lot? I assume they do. My drawer seems like it's getting pinched when I push it in. I squared off all the corners on the drawer box, leveled all the railings, leveled the two pieces of wood long side to long side and short side to short side. The only thing that isn't "perfect" are these measurements. 
My table bows in the middle slightly. It goes from 49" to 49.5" and then back to 49". It was supposed to be 4 ft, not 4ft 1 inch! grrr!
Two of my corners don't come together nicely. Sand it down? Plane it down? What should I do to make these corners come together or at least have the illusion that they do? 
How the heck do you move screws over 1/16th of an inch while keeping everything level by yourself? I have no one helping me with this and I've spent the last 5 days leveling railings and adjusting pieces of wood by 1/16th" and I'm at wits end! 

Anyone have any suggestions/comments? 

A:

Don't worry -- almost nobody builds perfect furniture the first time out. (Certainly not me!)
To your specifics: 

You need your drawer assembly to be parallel. Seriously. It'll be no end of woe if it isn't. I'm not entirely sure how it's in there, but if you can take it apart, temporarily brace it dead parallel, then re-integrate it with the box, your life will be better. 
Not sure.
Clamp the corner, remove the screws, tighten the clamp to the point where the crack isn't visible, refer to #4 for screw therapy, and re-screw. If you don't happen to have clamps that long, use strapping/string/whatever is strong enough, and then twist a bar in it to tighten it up.
To move screws over, plug the old holes with toothpicks and glue, drill a pilot hole where you want it, and screw it back together.

Good luck. You're doing fine!

