Q:

What alternatives are there for pocket screws?

So I borrowed a Kreg jig from a friend and was using some scrap 2x4's to work on the Community Project: Lets build a workbench!. Unfortunately I came to an impasse. I went to 3 local hardware stores on none of them carried "pocket screws" when I asked for them by that name. 
Sure I can order the genuine article from the Kreg website but I am more interested in what other hardware alternatives are there to pocket screws? 

A:

Not a direct answer to your question but thought I'd add that if you can find a screw of suitable overall form but it's unfortunately not self-tapping you can modify them so that they are. 
Any screw can be modified to make it self-tapping, and the process is surprisingly easy. All that's required is to create clearance and effectively a cutting edge, or more than one, and the existing threading takes care of the rest (just as it does on manufactured self-tapping screws).
This sounds like a lot of work but it can be a very quick operation, literally a few seconds per screw at fastest. So I'll concentrate on the fast-and-dirty method instead of those that create a groove similar to that seen on many commercial types.
Grip your screw in gloved fingers or pliers (pad jaws to prevent crushing the threads) and hold it against a grinder or belt sander to create one flat face on it, approximately 1/3 of the way up the threads. Ideally it should retain its original point, looking something like this when you're done:

Bingo, your screw has just become self-tapping.

A:

The important parts are to have self-tapping screws (unless you want to do a little predrilling before using the screws, not recommended) and having a flat surface on the bottom of the head.
Depending on what you expect it to need to bear, most screws would handle this fairly well.  However, the Kreg pocket hole screws are HARD.  Your average deck screw is very soft in comparison.  I accidentally hit one with my biscuit joiner and totaled the blade.  It also made a terrible racket and barely touched the screw.  So that would be the biggest difference between them and some other screw you would likely use that looks similar.    

