Q:

How to repair broken spindles on chair?

I have a chair that had it's back broken off (both stiles and two spindles, pic below).  Everything broke just above the seat.  It's no loss to us if it cannot be fixed, but I enjoy repairing things.  Can this be fixed without replacing the stiles or spindles?
A major problem is one of the stiles is missing a piece (right side in pic).  They were made with a slit at the bottom, wherein a wedge was inserted after the back was joined to the seat.
Here is what I've considered.

Just glue everything.  I know wood glue is really strong, but the joints will be under severe torque here, so I dislike this option.
Glue the two spindles and one stile back together, drill down the center of each and glue an oak dowel in.  I like this option because the oak will add support with some flexibility. The problem I see here is the spindles are only 1/2" diameter...so I cannot put a very big dowel in there (maybe 1/4" max?).

Regarding the stile with a missing piece: I don't know how to tackle that.   Can I just cut the stile flush, glue a bit of dowel onto the end, drill out the middle and glue in a smaller dowel for additional support?

A:

While it alters the height of the back, a reasonably simple repair would be to cut new tenons on the existing spindles.
Commercial tenon cutters exist (for instance, see Lee Valley), but they're an expensive proposition for a one-off repair like this. A bit of work with a knife and a rasp should get you pretty close to a fit. A bit of sanding and you should be nice and snug. If you trim too much off, I'd suggest epoxy instead of regular wood glue to fill the voids.
It looks like the three middle spindles are stub tenons and that the sides go all the way through. That means you'll cut the middle spindles a bit shorter than the sides before you form the tenons.
The original might have had a wedge in the bottom of the main spindles. It probably wouldn't hurt to do this, but two caveats: modern adhesives are pretty good (especially if you use the epoxy), and over-enthusiastic wedging can break the seat apart. There are plenty of chair/stool making resources that'll talk about wedges if you're so inclined.

