Q:

Is all fine grit count sandpaper called wet/dry?

I need to start getting into sharpening and honing so naturally one of the ways I could go would be to get some sandpaper in the 500 + grit count range. (That decision is based off a great video I saw from Paul Sellers that suggest this being a more economical method when starting out. )
At most home improvement stores, in the sections where I normally find sandpaper, the highest grit count I will come across is around 320. However, in automotive sections I find the higher grit counts I am looking for which is usually up to 2000! They are advertised as wet/dry paper. 
So is all the very fine/high grit count paper actually wet/dry sandpaper? Is wet/dry just a gimmick of terms? If I find anything with the right grit count does it matter what kind of paper it is (assuming there are multiple kinds)? 

A:

So is all the very fine grit count paper actually wet/dry sandpaper? 

No. You can get regular papers that go to 400, 600 and even 800 grit (or equivalents). But as a broad generalisation if you see paper that's dark grey, with dark backing paper, it'll be the wet-and-dry type even if it doesn't specifically call itself that.

Is wet/dry just a gimmick of terms?

No, absolutely not. They use a waterproof adhesive, and the paper itself is resin impregnated to make it water-resistant (you notice it when you try to saturate it and the water initially beads up on the back). 
With regular sandpaper the adhesive can be very water-soluble and the paper itself will just fall apart if dampened (note: with water).

Now you didn't ask about this but I would recommend you not go with sharpening on abrasive paper. Inexpensive diamond plates and oilstones are available and one or both are a much better intro to sharpening and far far better value, not just in the long term but even initially since high-grit paper can be fairly pricey. 
And as the final step I always recommend stropping and always with a homemade strop... woodworkers who buy strops should hand in their woodworking cards :-) As Paul Sellers explains and demonstrates stropping gives that final refinement to your edges in a fast, economical and user-friendly manner. It makes the difference between a sharp edge and a really keen edge in older parlance.

A:

When polishing metals, it is quite common to use very fine grit (high grit count) sandpaper. I use it frequently. It's also recommended to use up to 1500 grit sandpaper when preparing certain wood surfaces prior to oiling with certain products – I did it recently with some Oregon when using a citrus oil and it was smooth as a baby's bottom afterwards (and it smelled amazing too)!
With 2000 grit wet/dry plus metal polisher I have managed to get mild steel to basically look like a mirror. Doing that will give you a workout, I can tell you that. It makes polishing aluminium a breeze.
Wet/Dry sandpaper is not an oxymoron, it literally means one can use the paper as-is (i.e. 'dry') or with some abrasive/'polishing' liquid such as Brasso (i.e. 'wet'). Think of the way you use a cleaning or polishing product with a cloth, this is literally how it works. Wet/Dry sandpaper often is a bit more expensive as the paper ground is tolerant (i.e. it has something of a resist) to the wetness.
Technically the misnomer is the word 'sandpaper': Wet/Dry is not traditional glass/sand beaded paper normally used on wood but a very fine carborundum grit paper.
Because the majority market for these fine grit papers is for (metal) polishing where an abrasive compound can make a huge difference, this is why pretty much all very fine sandpaper is Wet/Dry. But you can easily get 500 grit paper in the other standard paper substrates at most home improvement/building stores.
Check this quick video out which as an example:
How to polish a dirt bike frame
But the video by Paul Sellers is much more instructive, he just takes it as a given that you know what wet/dry 'sandpaper' is.

