Q:

What is the recommended height of the blade on a table saw while operating?

I have been watching a lot of videos lately about table saws. In those videos I usually see cuts are being made with the blade just barely clearing the piece. For example:

Image from HammerZone
Conversely I see some where the blade is very high above the piece.

Image cropped from Wikipedia
In the second example I do not see a reason to have the blade up that high to cut the piece. There would be a obvious safety issue with more blade being exposed but is there a reason to keep the blade up that high?

A:

If you call up Freud and ask, they'll tell you that you want one full tooth to clear the top of the wood, but no more. 
There are a couple of reasons for that recommendation- first is safety. A tooth that clears the surface on the up swing then re-enters on the down swing may not follow the same planar path due to harmonics and vibration related physics. A tooth that is held firmly by the material it is cutting is less likely to catch.
The reason why you want a whole tooth to extend through the work surface has to do with the shape of a tooth and debris clearance. Circular saw blade teeth (even carbide ones) are often wider at the tip than they are at the base. This tapering allows for less binding and cleaner cuts than a straight tooth would.

A:

The common argument for raising the blade is that the front of the blade is making a more downward cut, theoretically reducing the chance of kickback and increasing cut quality. While this may produce a better-quality cut in plywood, the kickback argument relies on flawed logic, since kickback is often produced by the kerf pinching the back of the blade or by a workpiece or offcut getting pinched between the back of the blade and the fence. It also means the back of the blade is following a more vertical path as it exits the table, increasing the possibility that your workpiece or offcut will be raised off the surface of the table and out of your control.
The argument for lowering the blade is that less exposed blade means you have a smaller chance of an amputation if you accidentally position your hand in the line of the cut and make contact with the blade.
There are various modern recommendations, all of which are very similar:

the blade should be raised so its peak is 1/8" to 3/8" higher than your workpiece
the blade should be raised so 1 full tooth is exposed above your workpiece
the blade should be raised to expose half of the gullet (if there are multiple depths of gullets as in some combination blades, this recommendation applies to the shallowest gullets)

As TX Turner briefly noted, the purpose of having some clearance above the blade is to allow the gullets to empty. If the gullet does not have adequate clearance, it may not be able to dump its payload before its corresponding tooth takes another bite. When this happens, the gullet becomes packed with sawdust, producing friction on each subsequent pass, commonly causing the blade to wander and/or burn the wood.

A:

I set the blade to the minimum height that is required to make the cut, typically about 1/8" above.  
There isn't really a need to have it higher for purposes of clearing the sawdust.  If you look at the geometry of a table saw blade, the cutting action is happening at the front of the blade, as the cutters push through the wood.  The gullets will fill on the down stroke, and inertia will clear the gullets down into the body of the saw.  
Kickback occurs when the piece being cut is picked up by the back side of the blade, usually due to the saw kerf being pinched.  Having the blade lower reduces the length of the blade that is in the kerf, which can help reduce the chance of kickback (although a splitter or riving knife is far better).

