Q:

Is this a self-drilling wood screw?

I needed to attach two 2x4 as T-joint and was looking to buy self-drilling wood screws to do that. In HomeDepot, I found a box of screws labeled as 'self-cutting' and bought it. But, when I opened the box and looked at the tip of the screws, I found that they had gaps on the threads (like this one) 

rather than having a drill bit. The threads are tapered on the tip but remained all the way upto the tip. 
Can they self-drill? Or, do I need pre-drilling? In HomeDepot, I found that there were many self-drilling screws for metal sheet (for example, metal-to-metal or wood-to-metal) but coundn't find any for wood-to-wood attachment. Can I use those metal sheet self-drilling screws for wood-to-wood connection?

A:

Those are screws that are made to drill their own hole. The cutout bit at the tip is specifically made to bite into the wood more effectively.
One tip with screws like this: a lot depends on the amount of pressure you're going to be able to apply in the actual screwing-in.  If this is something where you can directly press on the driver, then typically you should have no problem with these kind of screws without pre-drilling, as long as you're not screwing a very difficult hardwood.  Pine or similar will be no problem.
But, on the other hand, if you're screwing these in a weird position where you can't easily apply pressure on the driver, say directly overhead where gravity is fighting you, or a tight fit where you have to use a 90 degree angle bit, you're much better off pre-drilling first if you want your screw to go in straight.
I would not use metal screws with wood.  Not only are the threads made for metal and not wood, but that gap in the threads towards the top of the screw that you find in wood screws makes the screw hold much better in wood applications.

A:

Can they self-drill?

Yes, the screw pictured above is indeed self-drilling.  The cutout at the tip is what performs the drilling action.  The relief in the screw shaft makes an edge which acts like a rotary cutter.

Or, do I need pre-drilling?

In pine, with enough edge distance for the screw, most likely not.  However, pre-drilling a screw is never a bad idea.

Can I use those metal sheet self-drilling screws for wood-to-wood connection?

You can, but metal screws are generally of a finer thread type than wood screws.  Since the grain of steel is much, much tighter and the metal is denser than wood, the threads are more closely spaced to give a better grip.
In wood, too-closely spaced threads to not given enough room between the threads to properly bite into the wood grain, leading to a weak screw-to-wood interface.

A:

Can they self-drill? Or, do I need pre-drilling?

They screws are designed to drill a hole as they go so there is no need to pre-drill.
Those gaps that you describe are actually a slot cut through the first few threads (where the screw is tapered) that creates a "one-time" drill bit that creates threaded hole.  They work well in softwood, but can be problematic in hardwood.  Using them sounds like an excellent way to join your 2x4's.

Can I use those metal sheet self-drilling screws for wood-to-wood connection?

You can, but you would be better off using the screws that you asked about in your first question.

