Q:

How to assemble gear system for adjustable table?

I've designed a table with an adjustable shelf. I feel as if I've researched the names and techniques for what kind of gear system to implement, but I need the experience of someone with knowledge of the subject to help me finalize my decisions. 
Here is my design:

My questions pertain to the gear and crank system. 
1 -The shaft in the design is 56" long. The shelf will hold approximately 30 pounds of equipment. What thickness should the shaft be?
2 - For mounting the shaft, I'm currently looking at these: 
Hub City FB260URX1/2 Flange Block Mounted Bearing - *can't post more that 2 links yet...
I'm just looking for verification that this is appropraite for my needs.
3 - Based on my research, the gear system is called a Rack and Pinion, but I'm having trouble figuring out what specifically the size and type of gear I should buy. Can someone provide a reference of something that would work for this set up?
4- Lastly, I need advice on how to mount and secure the crank and gears to the shaft. Will some sort of locking collar work? Or do I need something else? I am currently looking at these: Climax Metal 1C-100 Steel One-Piece Clamping Collar - *can't post more that 2 links yet.
That's it for now. I'll edit if clarification is needed. 

A:

I am by far not experienced with this. So I have little to say. I am sure you have gears on either side so lets start there. 
1) I would say for the shaft maybe a good 1-1/2 in to 2 in would be a good thickness if it is a stronger wood. That would last very long. I would even consider thicker for pine. All it would take is to much weight and the grain can give anyplace in the shaft. Unless your using metal.
2) Any bearing the shaft fits into would work fine. Make it flush with the wood and have pressure so it does not fall out. You can also just place the shaft directly in the wood. I would make the hole in the wood ever so slightly bigger and use oil as a lubricant. Of coarse that would things a little harder but possible.
3) Something I can give a fairly good answer to. It is call rack and pinion, I am sure. The basic rule I have with gears is small gears will give more torque. Like on a drill, making it easier to rise the shelf but slower. A big gear will be faster, but harder to lift. I recommend smaller Maybe 10 teeth will work for you. I have a website you can use http://geargenerator.com. You can download the gear selected and print it. It is fairly accurate in size. So if you have a band saw you will be able to make a gear. cut the gear out (not perfect) and glue it to a piece of wood. Once dried use a drill bit and cut in between the teeth at bottom edge to make things easier. Then if you have a band saw you can cut it out. There is a gear without buying a gear. But this simple website does not help with the rack. But you can cut it out as well. As long as the teeth can line up and move you are set.
4) oh man... I will try my best. You can make a locking collar pretty easily. again a band saw may be best. I will be adding a rough picture of what I am thinking below. But use a bearing in the wood* and slide the shaft through for the handle to attach a locking collar. And do the same on the other side. It can not move at the point but can be loosen to move. The shaft should then reach over to the gear. I consider gluing the gear when it is on the shaft. Also put a bearing in the wood* on the other side, having the shaft sticking out the side. Locking collar there and on the inside. That should really work good.
* Cut a hole from the inside and do not cut all the way through. Just so the bearing is flush to the wood. But have a hole cut bigger than the inner-diameter so that the shaft goes through the wood easy, but the bearing does not fall out. and have a locking collar on the inside against the bearing so it also has no problems falling out of place, but not so it is harder to turn.

I am hoping this answered the question very well. If not comment and I will do my best. 
P.S. welcome to the club!

