Q:

3/4 HP dust collector for a single tool (Bandsaw or jointer)

I am new to woodworking and been having lots of issues with the dust being spread all over my single door garage. I mainly use a 

CNC enclosed in a box.
Belt sander
9" cheap Bandsaw.
A benchtop jointer. 

I've been using a 2000 watt vacuum cleaner (not a shop vac) which was ok until I started using the bandsaw and jointer more after which things started to get messy. 
I am planning on buying a 3/4 HP dust collector and was wondering if it can handle the chips and dust from the bandsaw/jointer provided that it will be hooked to one of them directly? I always wear a dust mask and going to upgrade to a respirator, would that be enough?

A:

With the tools you are talking about, yes it should work fairly well.  As keshlam pointed out, you would probably be just fine using a shop vac for these and handle everything just fine.
The joiner would be the one to give you the most chips and any dust collector should be able to handle that.  Two of the big things that you would consider between a shop vac and a dust collector is what other tools are you considering getting in the future.  If you want a thickness planer, go with the dust collector, the shop vac gets filled up and clogged up way to fast to be really useful.  You might need a DC for a lathe as well.  
Also the Shop Vac is VERY loud.  I have a large dust collector and while it makes plenty of noise, the shop vac was worse, but part of the problem is the short hose keeps the shop vac close to where you are working.
Surprisingly the shop vac probably works better for the belt sander than a dust collector.  I've got a 'hood' I'll use with my DC and it helps keep the cloud down but still leaves a lot of dust to gather up.

A:

One thing you might consider is getting a cyclone attachment for your current vacuum system.  Lee Valley makes one that I haven't personally used, but it's similar to one that my dad made and uses in his shop.  Mostly I'm pasting the picture below for illustration purposes - all cyclone attachments work using the same principle.  Matthias Wandel builds a version in his video series as well.

This will greatly expand the capability of your vacuum to control the larger wood chips that are produced by a planer or jointer.  The cyclone keeps most of the debris from getting to your shop vacuum, hence prolonging filter life and time between emptying the bucket.
@bowlturner does make a good point about the noise.  I usually have ear muffs on when the vacuum in my dad's shop is running, and he's looking to install a more permanent dust collection system when time/funds allow.  For a budget though, this system with the cyclone is hard to beat.

