Q:

Purpleheart sustainability and environmental responsibility

My local hardwood retailer has a ton of purpleheart for sale. It's gorgeous and I'd love to play with it.
(Ha.)
But, I've been told, and online research semi-confirms, that this stuff comes from rapidly disappearing rainforests. I don't want to contribute to that.
Are there other, sustainable sources for purpleheart? Is it not, in fact, endangered? Is there any way to verify that what I'm buying didn't involve the destruction of 10,000 different species of Things that can Move?
(TL;DR: How to responsibly buy hardwood without trashing the rest of the world.)

A:

Purpleheart is not listed in the CITES Appendices or on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.  So it would not be generally considered "endangered".
My understanding is that in the environments where it is found naturally it grows very quickly, so while there is a limited supply it is also easily renewable.

A:

The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) itself is greatly at fault. Plug in "Purple Heart" (or similar search terms) and you get no answer at all! It looks like you must use the full binomial botanical name.
The US Lacey Act requires all woods to be fully and correctly named and identified as to origin. This, at least, would apply to woodworkers in the US.
Peltogyne paniculata is the name of Purple Heart used by some, perhaps most, woodworkers. Currently, IUCN does not even list that species. There are a half dozen Peltogyne species listed, with several EN (endangered) and one VU (vulnerable).
Woodworkers need to do everything they can to prevent mindless or intentional plundering of endangered and threatened species -- and to comply with the Lacey Act (where possible). Press IUCN for more classification, more and better listings, and to  include both the common and scientific names.
I'll mention that IUCN finally did what I called for in my public critique. Many or most Rosewoods (Dalbergia) are now finally classified.

