Q:

Best way to join pieces of L shaped desktop

I am building an L shaped office desk from pipe, structural fittings.  The top will be in two pieces cut from a 4x8 sheet of Baltic birch plywood.  I'd like the desk, including the top, to be disassemble-able and, if at all possible, for there not to be a leg at the inside corner.
I'm looking for recommendations on joining the two top pieces given the above objectives (includes orientation of joint - see image)
Some thoughts I've had (NB: effectively total noob to this sort of thing)

simply glue it (permanent)
dowel, biscuits, spline (permanent, complex/hard for me)
apron across the edge with the joint
piece across joint on underside screwed into the top pieces (prob. can't disassemble too many times)
dog bone fasteners

Thanks

A:

I have redrawn your desk top and would suggest the following:

Don't mess around with a mitered corner (At best you're just wasting wood with the triangular cut-offs.
Make the top of two rectangles joined with the lap joint(easy) or the dog bones (fun to work out).
Assuming you plan on using flanges to join the legs to the top, overlap one flange so that it attaches to both pieces of the top.  Most of the load will be carried by the leg and little load needs to transferred from one piece of the top to the next. The leg labeled as optional is necessary only if you are anticipating heavy loads (e.g. lots of books)

I have seen tables with pipe legs like you plan to use.  They have seemed remarkably stable and will hold up quite nicely if not abused - move by lifting, not dragging; it's not a chair so don't sit or dance on it.
The ability to knock down and re-build a piece of furniture is over-rated for the needs of most people.  While young, still getting an education, moving every year or two years, it is handy, but in the end, modular furniture is re-assembled at most a handful of times.  So, listen to Benchwerks, if the screw holes become too loose, relocate them.
After thought:  My experience with Baltic birch has been that it comes in square sheets 60" on a side.  You can make your top without piecing together parts. 

