Q:

Should I let the jigsaw blade rest once it heats?

Context: I'm new to woodworking and starting it as a hobby. I bought several cheap tools (Deko) and I'm learning mostly through YouTube.
When cutting circular cuts (in 20mm chipboard) using a Deko cordless jigsaw and blades (T111C HCS) I got from AliExpress, I noticed the blade gets hot to the touch after around a minute of cutting (non-stop). I've also seen what I think might be smoke (although it may also be fine dust).
Right now I cut for around 1 minute and pause for a few to let the blade cool down. Is this necessary? Is this normal?

A:

I don't pause specifically to cool the blade when I'm cutting with any tool. I do, however, usually burn my fingers slightly if I have to change the blade because I always forget just how hot the things get. I usually have one glove handy if I need to change blades during cutting.
I find that there are often pauses in my working as I readjust myself to cut at a more comfortable angle. Particularly when cutting curves, you're going to have to stop to rearrange yourself & the work simply because your shoulder doesn't rotate to allow you to make a full circle in one non-stop motion. I usually don't even take the jig saw off the work piece for those type of adjustments unless there's a possibility of knocking the saw off the work or I'm cutting in a slot in the work support and don't want to catch the blade there.
Higher quality blades will, in addition to lasting longer, starting and staying sharper, and being made more accurately, will likely also take the heat a bit better, but I'd bet you'd be hard pressed to find any accurate data on how much impact heat has on the blade life.
Chipboard/particle board/MDF is going to be hard on blades no matter what tool or what quality you purchase. These materials, because they have so much resinous glue in them are simply harder on the blades than "real" wood is going to be.
You mention that you think you've seen a bit of smoke. That's possible because of the glue in what you're cutting. The clue is to look at the cut edge to see if there are scorch marks. If there are, then there was a bit of burning during the cut. If they are a problem for the finished piece, a little bit of sanding will get rid of them.

