Q:

How can you make a square without a square?

There are many tutorials on making a square to check that corners are 90 degrees, but they all require you to use a square to check. 
So how can you make a square, without using a square? How were they originally made if the accuracy needed to be right, but modern methods of measurement and manufacture were not available?
I'm just starting out with woodworking, and as I don't have a project I want to complete as yet, I'm interested in making many of the tools I'd use as part of the learning process (mallets, squares, marker gauge, etc.).
Budget is very tight, but I don't mind incremental steps to the end goal, such as making a just-about-good-enough bench on which to build a better one. I've been watching a lot of Paul Sellers Youtube videos and they have spurred me on. 

A:

Well, to start, today's squares really are pretty cheap and it wouldn't cost much more than the materials if you are going to make it out of metal.  
However, making one out of wood, if you have a rectangle with the opposite sides the same length, then measuring the distance between opposite corners is the way to go.  When both measurements are equal, all corners are 90 degrees.

A:

So how can you make a square, without using a square? How were they originally made if the accuracy needed to be right, but modern methods of measurement and manufacture were not available.

Rope, and Pythagoras triangle.
A long time ago, the Great Pyramid of Giza was built. This was way before any modern, recognised system of working out a square - and yet it is square.
We also know this, Pythagoras' Theorem:

So, if you create a triangle that has edges of length 3, 4 and 5 you can create a right angle.
How can they create a triangle like this? Tie 12 knots in a piece of rope, equally spaced:

And then make it into a triangle:

And that gives a right angle.

Budget is very tight but I don't mind incremental steps to the end goal.

I guess you have a piece of paper to hand? If you feel that is cheating, you could use a ruler to draw that triangle, or make it yourself with string.

A:

So how can you make a square, without using a square? 

There are two very simple methods, the first relies on measurement, the second is empirical.
If accurate measurement is available you can rely on the 3-4-5 rule, already referenced in the Answers you've received.
I happen to have just made an accurate pocket try square using this method:

Assembling the parts dry I marked 6cm across on the short arm (the stock) and 8cm up the blade. Then I applied glue and inserted the blade into the stock and lightly clamped, adjusted the position until I measured 10cm precisely between the two marks and left it until the glue had set. 
After the glue was hard I drilled through the joint for three pins to lock the joint securely. I used copper here but other metals can be used as well (even mild steel, e.g. sourced from paperclips or basic wire nails) and if preferred wooden dowels can be used instead of metal. There isn't any significant difference in strength or stability for a piece like this going with wood over metal, I used the copper purely for looks.
The second method can only be used where you have a long enough working window on the adhesive used, or you don't glue and are merely holding the blade in the stock (e.g. by clamping force) and can then can lock its position in place with pins, nails or screws without the parts shifting. What you do is directly compare the squared line drawn by the try square against itself. Working from a perfectly flat edge, once there is no discrepancy between the squared line drawn with the try square used one way and then flipped over you have a perfect 90° angle:

I'm just starting out with woodworking, and as I don't have a project I want to complete as yet, I'm interested in making many of the tools I'd use as part of the learning process (mallets, squares, marker gauge etc).

This is an excellent idea and you'll learn a great deal doing this, in addition to creating a host of useful tools, jigs and accessories in the process of course. Please be sure to ask further questions if you'd like input on other things you might like to build. 
Here's an existing Question about a that you might find informative: What's a bench hook?

