Q:

Is there a 'best' way to sharpen an edged tool like a chisel?

There are a bewildering variety of sharpening methods out there and many opinions as to which might be the best.
Is there a best way?  What are some good references on the subject?

A:

Tl;DR
Let me begin this answer with the final conclusion:  all sharpening systems work.  Just pick one and live with it because none of them are any fun.
I use a set of Arkansas oil stones from Dan’s Whetstones and use the Veritas honing guide.  I’m slowly trying to learn to do this freehand and wean myself from the honing guide.  In addition to the stones, I have a piece of leather that I glued to a piece of wood to strop with.  I rub it with a stick of chromium oxide to give it a bit of grit.  For other things like carving tools with curved profiles I attempt to use a small slip stone and a leather strop with profiles molded in it but I’m terrible at it and don’t feel I have much to contribute there.
Having said that, here are the resources that I have used to learn about sharpening:
Book:  The Complete Guide to Sharpening by Leonard Lee (of Lee Valley Tools).
DVD:  The Last Word on Sharpening by Christopher Schwarz.  His philosophy here is:  sharpen often, do it quickly, get back to work.
I’ve struggled a bit with which type of sharpening media to use.  I’ve tried sandpaper (the Scary Sharp method), diamond plates, and traditional Arkansas oil stones.  I’ve also used the famous Tormek machine.
Sandpaper works very well.  I bought a $5 marble floor tile and used this system for quite some time.  I eventually decided that it was a pain to have to go restock my sandpaper so often and also a pain to stick it down and then have to scrape it off the tile every time.  I wanted a more permanent system.
I also tried diamond plates but had a strange problem:  they seemed to wear out which is exactly the opposite of what is supposed to happen.  I submitted a question to woodtalkonline and got this response.  It is long but very good – answered by Larry Williams who is a maker of traditional wooden handplanes in Arkansas and is an expert on the subject of sharpening.  (I actually stopped by his shop once while in Arkansas for the weekend.  He and his business partner were the nicest guys ever and I could hang out with them for a year and not learn all that they knew.)
The Tormek is the best of all but is way too expensive for me to invest in.  My friend has one and I have to say that it really does work as advertised.  It produces a sharp edge at a rigidly controlled angle and it is quick (but first you have to fill the trough with water and then clean it up afterwards.) I would buy one if I could justify it.  If money is no object, go buy one of them.
Anyway…  several years ago, I had to attend a funeral in Arkansas and chose my route so as to pass by the quarries of Dan’s Whetstones and while there, I got a tour, a lecture on sharpening, and two traditional Arkansas sharpening stones and that is what I now use for everything.  I wrote about that little field trip over here.
So that’s what I know and how I came to know it.  Everyone makes a different decision but my point is to simply make a decision and go with it.  If I wasn’t so cheap, I probably would have bought a set of Shapton Waterstones years ago because I’ve seen so many people online use them.  The subject of sharpening is fraught with almost religious fervor and narrow mindedness but the links above are links to people who seem open minded and perhaps scientific.

A:

The most important part of sharpening a tool is knowing where to remove the material from to restore the edge.
On wipedia's grind page there is a description of the most common ways to put an edge to a blade.

A chisel, for example, will most often have #4; a flat surface on one side and a angled face ground off. To sharpen this you need to remove material from the angled face evenly until the edge is sharp again.

A:

For maintaining a sharp edge frequent light sharpening will serve you best as this will limit wear and heat (after a couple hours using a tool a couple light strokes across a wet stone as part of your cleanup process is often all you need). Restoring an edge is much more difficult as you need to take hardening into account. If you have an old beat up tool to sharpen I would remove the handle (if possible), anneel it, grind it and re-harden. But note that I am a better blacksmith than woodworker.

