Q:

Food safe potting/knot filling compound

I recently made an end grain cutting board. Unfortunately I didn't pay enough attention during the glue up and I have a couple of knots/knot holes that go through the board. The largest hole is roughly 0.5" in diameter on one side and 0.125" on the other. The board is ~1.25" thick. 
Typically I pot these kinds of holes with super clear epoxy and occasionally add saw dust or something if I want to match the wood color.  Given the application, I'm hesitant to use any old epoxy.  I've read a lot of threads (including on this forum) about different food safe adhesives/finishes/etc.  I've seen everything from 

all epoxies are food safe once fully cured 

to 

never use epoxy  

Other threads mention PVA glues, CA, and hide glue.  I don't think any of those are good solutions for filling a hole as large as the one I'm describing.
It seems like FDA CFR 175.300 is the most stringent regulation for food safe coatings/adhesives.  Wondering if there are any recommendations for a clear potting compound (doesn't have to be epoxy) that conforms with  FDA CFR 175.300 and would be good for this application.

A:

all epoxies are food safe once fully cured 

This may be an overstatement.
Food-safe epoxies do exist.  In order to be considered "food-safe," the ingredients need to meet FDA CFR 175.105 & 175.300 (in the United States, at least).
McMaster-Carr has some for sale.  Permabond makes some.
West Systems, another well-known epoxy maker, specifically states that

[t]o date, none of Gougeon Brothers' epoxies meet FDA regulations or any other drinking water certified approval.

To me, this means that nothing they have is strictly food-safe.  However, they also state the following:

What about the builder who weighs the risks and decides to go ahead against our recommendation? For the homebuilder it is a personal choice. If you build a potable water tank, follow the general guidelines noted above; in addition, you may want to install an in-line filter to help remove any possible extracts and odd tastes.

Here they recognize that people will use their product against recommendations and give a couple of suggestions to reduce the chance of any side effects.
There may be other manufacturers that have food-grade epoxy, but these are what my initial Google searching have unearthed.

Given the application, I'm hesitant to use any old epoxy.

Let us also consider the usage of a wooden cutting board.  They are not submerged in water for a long period of time (at least, they shouldn't be).  Most shops are pretty conducive to a good curing of the epoxy resin.  Generally, foods are not particularly acidic, though epoxy's resistance to acids may be found on this webpage.  It is possible that chopping with a knife could dislodge fragments of the epoxy, which could be ingested.  At his point, it is really up to you, as an individual, whether you can tolerate this risk of possible side effects (personally, I probably would if I reviewed the product's MSDS sheet and also read other users' reviews of the product for food-grade utility).

A:

Personally I'm of the belief that epoxies are safe for direct food contact (once fully cured) without specific information to the contrary, based on basic principles. That's not to say I would use any old epoxy as a surfacing for something like a drinking vessel, but I'd be perfectly happy with virtually any commercial wood finish for incidental food contact.
In relation to your boards presumably you want to take a more conservative position and there are three possible fixes I think you should consider:

leave the holes
fill with glue and sawdust/sanding dust
plug with wood

A hole through a board at first glance would seem like a terrible health hazard but in reality it shouldn't pose much of a problem if it's A, through the full thickness of the board and B, not too narrow in diameter. To begin with nothing is going to get lodged in there and not be clearly visible and secondly it would be easily dislodged; in effect, there's not much difference between the sides of the holes and the flanks of the board. But obviously there's an aesthetic issue here and holes through the board could be considered unsightly.
Even if using epoxy you don't fully trust, the sawdust/sanding dust fill is clearly much safer purely on the basis of there being less epoxy present (far less, the dust component could be the major constituent). But to err even further on the side of caution you could use a waterproof woodworking glue already approved for use on cutting boards to bond the fill.
Plugging with wood is clearly the safest option if viable technically, since at most you'd be left with a glue line at the margins of the plug which is not much different to the glue lines already present in the board.

