Q:

Cutting curved recess

I am an amateur level woodworker, looking to cut a curved recess into a piece of wood, which I will then be using as a "back" to display a drinks bottle, in a similar style to the picture below, but with the back curve of the bottle nestling into the recess shape in the wood.  The curved recess therefore needs to be the same approx size and curve as the length of the bottle back.  Any tips or suggestions much appreciated.

A:

The curved recess therefore needs to be the same approx size and curve as the length of the bottle back.

If you're just making one, get some gouges and just carve the recess. Lay out the outline, maybe use a drill press to drill holes to the desired depths on a grid, and then get to work.
If you're making many, either buy a small CNC router to do the work, or buy or build a router duplicator so that once you've made one, you can quickly make as many copies as you want.
If you're making a small-ish number, maybe visit your local maker space or find a friend who has a suitable CNC.

A:

If I was making 1 or 2, I'd take my angle grinder with a flapper disk (sand paper flaps) and just grind it out.  Would probably start with a practice piece, takes a little getting used to the first time.  But a 4 1/2" angle grinder should make a decently close arc for a wine bottle.

As Graphus pointed out, while this is probably the fastest way to get what you are looking for, some safety precautions should be considered and accounted for.

This throws a lot of sawdust into the air so you will want a well ventilated area and a dust mask, maybe some safety googles as well.

This is a high speed torque handheld machine.  you want to make sure the piece you are working on is clamped down well so it won't move.  The piece can be spun and shot across a work shop in the blink of an eye.

Once again it is a high speed torque machine that you hold and control with your hands.  start with a test piece and get used to it.  make sure you have the reversible handle attached and use it as well, it makes a big difference in being able to control where the grinder travels.

