Q:

What is wood stabilization?

Not much meat to this question. What is wood stabilization and why would I want to do it? It think it has to do with turning but are there other reasons that I would want to do it. 
This question is based on a comment from this answer:

It's worth noting that you can stabilize punky spalted wood - grfrazee

A:

Wood stabilization typically refers to reinforcing wood against inherent defects or weaknesses.
In turning, stabilization may mean anything from filling cracks with epoxy, to impregnating the wood with resin.
More generally, you can stabilize a crack with a butterfly inlay or you can again use epoxy or some other filler.
In the case of turning, the purpose of stabilizing the wood is to strengthen it against cracking and shattering while working on the piece.  In other cases, you may want to showcase a crack (or other "defect") as part of your piece's character, but you want to prevent the crack from spreading further, possibly to the point of causing the piece to break or fail. For example, butterfly/bowtie inlays are commonly used to stabilize cracks in large wooden tabletops.

A:

When talking about stability, it is necessary to distinguish between structural stability and dimensional stability.  The means for reinforcing spalted wood (plastic resins, butterfly inserts, etc) fall within the realm of establishing structural stability.
During the 1970's a chemical means of maintaining dimensional stability using a warm solution of polyethylene glycol (PEG) became popular. Brought to the world's attention by the US Forest Products Laboratory in 1959, the process is basically to soak the wood in water for a couple of days then submerge it in a heated solution of PEG and water for a few or several days.  This causes naturally occurring moisture to be displaced by the PEG and to no longer be subject to the vagaries of dimensional changes brought on by changes in humidity without seriously affecting workability and structure. It is most appropriately used for turnings, carvings and other projects that employ thicker wood that might balk at conventional drying processes.
PEG is not a panacea and PEG treated wood has its problems, specifically, gluing, finishing, and corrosiveness.  Its waxy finish resists some glues, but there are viable work-arounds. Polyurethane and Danish oils work well as finishes, but traditional varnish and lacquers should be avoided.  PEG is corrosive to most metals except stainless steel, so fasteners and attachments should be carefully considered.  
PEG is not good for all hardwoods (hard maple, cherry), but is especially friendly to walnut.  
There are several suppliers of PEG (A search for "PEG wood" will set you on the right track). This search will also lead you to specific instructions for time, temperature, concentrations which vary depending on the source. A comprehensive, but dated, discussion of how and when to use PEG is found in this article from Oregon State University.  

