Q:

Setting precise depth on a table saw with no depth gauge

My table saw doesn't have a depth gauge. What is the quickest way to set it to a precise depth for e.g. cutting slots or dados or clean looking rabbets?
I tried using calipers to measure the blade height but it is difficult to make sure the blade is rotated so a tooth is at peak height.
Currently the way I am doing it is eyeball it, test cut through scrap, measure actual depth with calipers, adjustment by eye, repeat until I'm close enough. It isn't exact and it is very inconvenient.

A:

What is the quickest way to set it to a precise depth for e.g. cutting slots or dados or clean looking rabbets?

I think you're already pretty close to doing it.
Usually what I do is get it close to the measurement that I want using a tape measure, spacer block, test piece, or something else just by looking at it.  Rotate the blade (power off!) to see where the top of the cut is.
When you think you have it close, run a test piece through the saw and measure with an accurate device (calipers are good for this, though a combination square works just fine).  Or, you can measure against the piece you are fitting it to, which is a better idea since you can custom fit it.  Keep fine-tuning it until you have the cut at the desired depth.  Sure, it burns through some scrap pieces until you get the settings dialed in right, but that's what the scrap bin is for!

A:

Not an exact answer to the question but this should help you get precise in 2 cuts but should be very helpful in this situation and would also help you get to know your table saw. This information should also partner well with other answers here. 
I cannot speak for all table saws but many are dial/wheel based for vertical adjustment. Turning that wheel a full rotation should be an exact, measurable change. In that every full rotation should move the blade up or down the same amount. 
Make a pass onto a test block (The blade would need to have flat top teeth for this to work well!). Use a caliper with a depth gauge to measure the depth of cut. Then turn the wheel one full rotation to raise the blade and cut again on the test piece. Measuring again, and subtracting the previous cut depth, should give you the depth change of one full wheel rotation! I would suggest repeating the test to see if you get the same results.
While this does not help with the first cut exactly it does make fine adjustments more precise!

A:

Depth gauges can be used to set the height of many different tools, table saws, routers etc.  
I got the Incra gauge myself and they can be found for under $20.  

