Q:

How do I flatten portions of a 1" dowel equally on both sides?

I broke a hardwood patio umbrella rib.  The ribs are made out of 1" x 1/2" x 5'6" hardwood.  I don't think that I can buy this dimension.
To fix this, I  thought that I might buy a 1" hardwood dowel and flatten the three areas where that rib connects to the umbrella with a brass fitting. 
I want to flatten the dowel equally on both sides so that I am left with the flat area being in the center of the dowel.  All the flattened areas should be in the same orientation.
I don't have a planer, and and ideally would do this with hand tools.  
 

A:

Belt Sander
This seems like an obvious choice. It might not make perfect corners on the new dowel but I can't imagine people will be looking up at where this meets. Very easy to remove stock quickly and if you orient the dowel right you should be able to get nice flat surfaces. Other power sanders could work for this as well just maybe not an orbital one as easily. 
Plane
This would be a cleaner and more precise option. If you were leaning towards hand tools this would be a good candidate. Clamp the dowel between two pieces of sacrificial wood. Better yet would be to take a block (or two) and cut a inch hole in it. Then the dowel will rest in that block with only the dowel to be remove exposed. Plane until just before the "block". A small block plane would work nice for this. 

You don't mention how much need to be cut but if the ends don't need to be cut to far you might end up making the ends more tapered. That could work to your advantage giving a tighter fit. 
Chisels
I had though about chisels but was worried that they might try and walk along the grain and ruin the edges. 
Scrapers
You might even be able to get away with a card scarper as well but I would not put this in front of the other options. 
Update from pictures
Like the other I think that the original rib could still work in place. You should just be able to glue it back together with some clamps. The one thing I would do to try and reinforce it would be to drill a couple of holes across the break and fill each hole with a similar sized dowel. Glue those in there and I doubt it will break there again. I could not find a great picture put in concept this is have I meant

Just like the peg holds the tenon in the picture above a couple of small dowels can help hold your glue joint and give it some strength.
This is of course assuming the ends of the rib were not damaged as well. 

A:

Forget squaring round dowels.  If you want one side round for looks, it's much easier to round a square than vise-versa.

Go to any lumber yard or big box store and find a 1" x 4" x 6' (or 1" x 6" x 6', etc.) standard board.  Standard is the name of a type of board.  It is usually harder than similar common boards.  Some people will say you need a cedar board, but your umbrella will probably be faded or caught in a windstorm before any significant rot happens.
Ask an employee to cut you 1" wide strip.  Be prepared to pay a minor cutting surcharge.  You now have a 1" x 1/2" x 6' squared board!
To cut to your 5'-6" length, go the aisle where they cut trim to length and make a quick cut.  Or buy a $5 hacksaw.  Or use a steak knife for such a small piece.
Sand to your desired roundness on one side.

Your real troubles are going to be attaching your new rib to the center part.  

A:

I was going to suggest using a block with a hole drilled through it, but without a drill press this would be difficult to make.
Instead I would suggest a hand saw, some clamps, and a guide block.
The block should be positioned so that the bottom of the blade aligns with the start of the flat bit.
Wrap the dowel with masking tape with the edge marking the length of the flat portion. This will serve as a stopping line for your cut, and prevent tearing the wood when you make the second cut.
Clamp the dowel and your guide block, then use a hand saw held flush to the guide to cut down the length of the dowel.
Now cut down to the line with the blade aligned with the tape.
Repeat the process on the other side of the dowel.

