Q:

Wood Still Rough After Finish

Preface - I'm a woodworking novice.
I applied a polycrylic finish to an Ikea Gerton (solid beech wood) table top.  I only lightly sanded with 220 by hand before applying the finish. I wasn't aiming to smooth the wood as I was under the impression the finish would smooth things out based on the following:

The whole idea with sanding the wood is not necessarily to get it as smmoth [sic] as glass. Rather, its to give the wood a clean, even, and scratch-free appearance. [...] Sanding up to 400 really isn’t going to give you a smoother finish in the end. Because after the first coat of finish is applied, you are no longer dealing with the raw wood. You are dealing with the finish.

Source
However after applying 3 coats, with a light 220 hand sanding between coats, the wood feels pretty much the same as before applying the finish.  Should I have sanded more before applying the finish or did I do something wrong in the application?  
Would sanding the finish help achieve a smoother feel to the surface? If so any tips would be appreciated.

A:

I only lightly sanded with 220 by hand before applying the finish.
  Should I have sanded more before applying the finish

With wood that is already well prepped like on a Gerton worktop from Ikea (already finish sanded in the factory) this would normally be the right amount of sanding. 
You can sand more, and many people do (there's a lot of over-sanding these days), but just a light hand sand should be all that's needed to refresh a previously prepared surface and make it amenable to a waterbased finish (i.e. to help prevent beading).

However after applying 3 coats, with a light 220 hand sanding between coats, the wood feels pretty much the same as before applying the finish.

Given that a flat/smooth wood surface sanded to 220 is pretty smooth that may be what you should expect. 
You can't achieve a surface like a sheet of glass until you've built up a thick film finish and sanded and buffed it smooth1. One other point possibly worth noting is the sort of "silky" surface that well-sanded wood has isn't quite like the glossy surface of a varnish or other film finish, and consequently they don't feel exactly the same.

did I do something wrong in the application? 

Can't be sure but I don't think so. As my previous Comment indicated I was initially concerned that the finish had raised the grain2 and you were now dealing with a rougher surface, but your comments seem to indicate you have a surface as smooth as it was prior to the finish going on which is fine. 

The above is based on the updated Question with the added details requested (thanks for that BTW, often we don't get those!) so it's just the title has me wondering, it shouldn't still be rough since it shouldn't have previously been rough......

1 See Evening reflectivity of a finish after "finishing the finish" and Leveling a finish/finishing the finish 
2 Some sources state that all finishes raise the grain to some degree, but waterbased finishes do this much more than others because of the water they contain (although even with these it varies somewhat product to product).

A:

One thing I haven't seen mentioned yet is to make sure no tiny dust particles settle onto the finish while it's drying. I've overlooked this in the past when trying to diagnose this same problem.

A:

In my experience, the key to a smooth-feeling finish is to sand lightly with a high-grit (I've used 320) paper between coats of poly, as well as lightly sanding at the end with the same grit. I don't blame you for not sanding the factory surface on the Ikea top, I'm not sure what materials they're using and if it's any kind of plywood you could go right through the veneer and ruin the table top- so good call there. 
For your situation, I would recommend lightly sanding with a high grit paper, somewhere around 320, and see if that smooths out the feel of the table. For next time, try sanding in the same way in between coats of poly (making sure to wipe away any dust with a tack cloth or similar), and you should have a smoother feel.

