Q:

Cutting a wooden ball in four pieces

I would like to know the best technique to cut a wooden ball into four identical pieces that meet together in the middle. Obviously, cutting it along two perpendicular planes is a solution, but I want something that resembles this:

This is done on a tetrahedron, but the idea is the same for the ball: the pieces should meet together in the middle the same way they do on this tetrahedron. Here is an applet I found that allows for 3D manipulation of the tetrahedron, as well as offsetting the four pieces a bit.
I would like to know the cleanest way to do it, as later I'd like to carve little cylindrical holes on each piece to add magnets that hold the thing together, and allow for manipulation. Considering I can do the measurements (and that's easier said than done), how do do the actual cutting? How to know where the blade should stop without going too far in the middle?
Maybe a better solution would be to just double the amount of material and start with a half-ball, that I can then carve to the correct shape? But I can see two issues with that:

It double the costs on material, because of the waste that will be produced.
How to make sure that the pieces are fitting together nicely? Cutting one too much and you're left with something that's closer to an ostrich's egg than to an actual round ball...

A:

This is what I would do:

make those 4 equal parts separately as 4 little tetrahedrons - that way I'd be able to make sure the angles are correct
make inter-contact surfaces as good fit as I can (while completely ignoring the "outer" surfaces)
dry fit several times to make sure it fits together nicely
finish the inner contact surfaces with something really hard and durable - polyurethane, epoxy, etc.)
wait for the finish to fully cure (this could be a long time for poly)
temporarily glue all pieces together (blue tape and superglue, doublesided tape, etc..)
carefully turn out into a sphere on a lathe
break temporary glue and clean up
finish outer surface
drill small holes and glue/screw in the magnets

