Q:

What is this pest living in my drying lumber and how do I eliminate it?

this is my first time going from log to bowl, so please forgive me if I've made any really dumb mistakes.
I felled a birch and a beech tree (I'm in New England) and cut them into ~4-foot long sections to dry for a year or two before I put them on the lathe.
I made a double boiler and melted down some wax in order to seal the cut edges, and I think that part went OK.
However, a month after being sealed and left in my cool, dry barn for curing, I checked in and noticed many little cones of sawdust under the logs (see photo).

I don't mind wormholes or other small perforations in my finished products, but I certainly don't want to feed or shelter whatever pest this is if I don't have to.
I'd like to keep the wood food-safe, if possible, as I mostly make kitchen bowls and muddlers.
My question is: what is the best way to eliminate this pest?
Thanks for any help you can provide!
AKA

A:

There aren't a lot of pests that eat wood. This page provides a pretty good list, including:

Carpenter ants (see this page for id and control details) are large black ants that nest in structures causing damage.
Dry-rot fungi (see this page for id and control info) attack and weaken wood.
Powderpost beetle (see this page for id and control info) larvae bore in and damage hardwoods and softwoods.
Carpenter bees (see this page for id and control details) are large wood-boring bees that resemble bumble bees.
Termites (see this page for id and control info)

Your pictures rule out fungus. In my mind the lack of ants running around suggests it may not be carpenter ants, but I don't know. And termites in my experience leave finer sawdust than in your picture, usually mixed with droppings. If you could spot the actual insect it would be very helpful; look for bees, ants, beetles hanging around.
Wood wasps, certain types of moths, and other types of beetles are also possibilities.
You might also be interested in this write-up. Of particular interest is the section on wood borers, which may apply to your situation depending on the insect:

A:

Looks like powder post beetles to me. If that is the case you have some nice firewood. Sorry. 

