Q:

Can I apply polyurethane over oil before oil cures?

Specifically I am wondering about polyurethane (Rustoleum Ultimate) over boiled linseed oil, but in general polyurethane or other top coats with similar chemistry over any drying oil.
Question is: Can I apply polyurethane over an oil before the oil completely cures or do I have to wait?
I looked up linseed oil on Wikipedia and it led me to drying oils. These oils polymerize by reacting with ambient O2. I also attempted to research the curing process of polyurethane but discovered there are many different types with many different uses, so it was difficult to find info. I think they cure by reacting with ambient moisture.
My knowledge of chemistry is too limited to be able to understand if polyurethane would allow O2 to pass through to react with the undercoating of oil as it cures.
The other random bit of info that I found is that Rustoleum Ultimate polyurethane primarily consists of:

Dipropylene Glycol Monomethyl Ether (DPM)
Methyl-n 2-Pyrrolidone (NMP)

Neither of which I understand. I reached the conclusion that they are moisture cured from this article although it concerned types of polyurethane used on metal. Not sure if it's the same as wood.
So, can I apply polyurethane before the BLO cures? Will it continue curing underneath? Or do I have to wait? If I do have to wait, what will happen if I don't? Is it different for an oil-based polyurethane (it looks like the Rustoleum one is water-based)?

A:

Can I apply polyurethane over oil before oil cures?

Yes, broadly speaking you can do this and there is no real penalty. You do tend to see an increase in drying time, but contrary to many statement to the contrary online the oil will cure perfectly well under a coat of poly, because the varnish is not at all a perfect oxygen barrier.
However, polyurethane is by no means a single product and the above does not apply to Rust-Oleum's Ultimate as it's a waterbased poly! As a rule no waterbased product should ever be applied to an oily surface.

If I do have to wait, what will happen if I don't? 

You'll have significant application difficulties, as you'd expect applying a water-borne product to an oily surface. The most significant effect can be an uncontrollable beading, which prevents any sort of even coverage.
If you wait for the oil to cure however you can successfully apply the Ultimate onto wood treated with BLO. This curing time is at minimum a couple of weeks, but many users prefer to wait a month or so to err on the side of caution.

A:

Can I apply polyurethane over an oil before the oil completely cures or do I have to wait?

You can, but you won't like the results.
Not allowing the oil beneath to cure fully will mean that part of the oil mixes with the solvent used to carry the polyurethane (assuming oil-based poly), leading to a splotchy finish.  If you're using a water-based poly, it will bead up like water on an oil slick.
See this related Question.

Specifically I am wondering about polyurethane (Rustoleum Ultimate) over boiled linseed oil

If you like the subtle tan/yellow coloration BLO provides, an oil-based polyurethane should provide a similar tinting.  Or, you could use a tinted stain/dye for the same coloration and then finish with poly.  Since BLO has a widely-varying curing time (especially in colder weather), it's far more consistent to use a stain/dye for coloration.

