Q:

Calculation of the strength of a wooden beam

I'm designing a wooden structure for Shibari purpose and I need to calculate the maximum load capacity of a beam at the midpoint. I've tried using various calculators, but I don't fully understand all the parameters. Could someone explain or point me to a place where I can easily calculate the maximum load?

The data for my calculations looks like this:

Type of wood: spruce
Class: C24
Lenght: 3000 mm
h: 95 mm
b: 45 mm

The beam is supported at both ends. The main force will be placed in a single point middle of the beam (hanging on a rope). What's the maximum weight I can put on such beam without it breaking or getting damaged from the bend?

A:

The answer to your question is not as simple as it may first appear.  You propose using a 45x95mm (2x4") piece of lumber spanning 3000mm (10') with a person suspended at mid-point. The amount it will support is substantially greater than even a heavier person would present.  However, there are several problems to consider.

As you apply weight the beam will tend to sag.  How much sag are you willing to accept?
The amount of bearing and the means of connecting the beam at the ends is important.  You want to prevent twist at the ends to maintain secure connections at the bearing points. You must also consider that the load is not static. The person will move and this will introduce lateral loads that make the stresses on the beam more than just vertical causing the beam to twist.
As the beam sags more, it will have a tendency to twist.  In doing so, the vertical profile of the beam decreases and so too does its capability to support the person. It will then have a tendency to twist more and sag further. (Hence the need to properly secure the ends.)
Your span is significant, and this reduces the load it can carry and its ability to resist the tendency to twist under load.  The shorter the span the better it will perform.

My instincts tell be that the size of your beam is inadequate. I would be inclined to suggest increasing the depth to 6" or 8" and doubling its width.  Of course, the best answer is not in calculation but by testing the set-up before actually using it.

