Q:

What should I look for when buying a table saw?

I'm thinking about getting my first table saw. I'm a hobbyist but I still want to get something good.
I'm looking for a list of desirable features (safety, accuracy, usability, etc) as well as things to look out for and how to assert the tool's quality once I get it so it won't take me a lot of time to realize something is wrong with it.

A:

Many existing guides to purchasing first table saw.
How to Buy Your First Table Saw and Get Started Using It

Intro says "the primary considerations you should have are your budget and your needs".

Choosing A Table Saw – 13 Things To Consider Before Buying!

Base Type
Table Space
Extension Tables
Rip Capacity
Electrical
Saw Blade Size
Cut Depth
Dust Collection
Dado Blade Option
[Not available in many countries outside of America, considered too dangerous by lawmakers]
Fence Options
[Stock fences on saws ($$-$$$) sometimes poor, many better 3rd party fences available. DIY fence for older saws can be huge upgrade.]
Blade guard
Riving Knife
Saw Stop
"As mentioned before, table saws are the most dangerous machines in a woodworker’s shop based on ER visits."

Not mentioned but I think very important is miter gauge. Stock miter gauge often weakest part, even on good brands can be junk. Many upgrade miter gauges now available, can be expensive. Some from China are of very high build quality but not overpriced, China tools Ep.18 Does the best Miter Gauge come from China?
Why you should own a Table Saw
Choosing Your First Table Saw
How to Choose the Best Table Saw (updated only 5 days ago!)
The Right Table Saw for Your Shop
Your first table saw: A step-by-step guide to making your first cuts.
Added points possibly not covered in links

Most important to research table saw safe practice BEFORE FIRST USE. You cannot trust many YouTubers to teach you table saw safety as many ignore basic safety protocols.
Stock blades often poor. Starting budget should allow for purchase of 1-3 quality blades from reliable manufacturer.
TURN OFF POWER TO SAW WHEN CHANGING BLADE.
After you purchase you need to research crosscut sleds and zero clearance inserts. 1st important for safety during crosscuts, 2nd for quality of cut.
Older saws can be upgraded with knee switch for huge safety upgrade.
Dust collection, dust collection, dust collection if you will work inside.

