Q:

What is this part?

I'm willing to give a $200 reward on this, if it's not against StackExchange policy. I know this is Woodworking but I'm hoping leads me in the right direction with folks who like creating/working with with their hands who might have the missing piece of knowledge I seek.
This is a telescopic extension arm that was repurposed for a painter's easel. The artist in question who built this easel lives in Australia, so it's possible it's some kind of vintage part specific to the region, but not necessarily.
I'm building my own easel, and while it diverges in a lot of ways, I want this exact telescopic arm.
It's critical I emphasize this... I want the exact part, and I don't want to discuss "why does it have to be exact when any old one will do?" Every time I ask on a forum or somewhere, 80% of the time is spent looking over suggestions that are nothing even remotely close, as well as having to explain why I don't want a similar part. I'd like to avoid all that noise, and focus on ideas of its exact origin.
I have spent hours upon hours scouring Google Images, TinEye, ChatGPT4-V, forums, etc. I KNOW it is out there somewhere, I just need to encounter the right person who knows.
I can ask the artist, but I don't want to bother him just yet unless its my absolute last resort.

The most unique aspect of it that I notice is that a cross-section of the arm is square/rectangle. Almost every telescopic arm I can find is either round or flat, so I'm hoping that helps narrow it down.
The main things i've been looking at are window stays, camper window telescopic arms, drafting table support arms, etc etc. It's possible it's still something I searched, but just didn't look at vintage product model X, etc.
The artist likes to repurpose things, so I'm assuming it's a vintage part. Another user in "Home Improvement" commented that it might be custom made though.
Here are a few images of it:

A:

Well that didn't take very long, I emailed the artist and he responded..... in three minutes!!

What is this part?

They were homemade from curtain rails.
I know you specifically didn't want anything except the exact part but he suggests caravan spare parts shops for an easier alternative — window stays.

