Q:

Why choose a DIY router table over a mananufactured version?

I am a woodworking newbie.
Recently I decided to obtain a router table and am curious why some woodworkers choose to make their own rather than purchase a manufactured one.
What are some reasons to build your own vs. buying one?
I will appreciate it if you share what features are included in your self-built router tables vs. those from equipment companies.

A:

Why choose a DIY router table over a manufactured version?

Typically cheaper. Obviously a lot depends on what you make it from (phenolic-laminated HD-MDF versus bare MDF from the local big-box) and what you add to it (commercial mitre gauges, fences etc.).
More feature-rich (if desired). Some people are happy with very basic router tables because they provide all they need1.
Only the features you want and no others. 
Infinitely adaptable with basic woodworking tools and skills.
Can be more stable. Particularly (but not exclusively) lower-cost router tables are neither as robustly built nor as stable as you'd like. Obviously dependent on materials choices and build quality a homemade router table can be small but heavy and completely resistant to racking if put together properly.
Satisfaction of having made it yourself.

I will be appreciated if you share what are included in your self-built router table plans that are advantages over those from equipment companies.

One of the chief advantages a homemade router table can provide I think is a split fence. Split fences are available on commercial router tables, but generally not at the budget end, and even when they are provided they can be a little wobbly.

1 Strongly recommend you go this way initially, then figure if you need more features after actually using the table for a while. Many of the "Oh that's a good idea!" features are just that, a good idea and of little day-to-day use to the average owner (just as many of the router bits in a typical set will see little or no use with most buyers). 
The most basic of all router tables is a sheet of some board material (doesn't matter so much what it is) with a hole roughly in the centre for the bit to poke through, clamped to the edge of an existing table. The fence is provided by a straight piece of 1x2 clamped to it. Yes this really is enough, and for many it means it can be built entirely from scraps, giving a total materials cost of $0/£0/€0.

