Q:

Should a bandsaw blade lie flat on a table or bench top?

I bought a used 10 inch bandsaw and it came with several blades. When I was putting a different one on I noticed it was twisted.  I just took it off and put it on a table top.  It didn't lie flat.  The "circle" has a cup to it, similar to how a wood circle could cup.  It looks like the weld was done wrong.  I took the rest of the blades and laid each one on the table.  The only one that was really flat was the one that was on the saw when I bought it.  I only found one reference on the internet about this--it said the blade should lie flat.  So, are all these blades bad?  Or, is it OK if the blade isn't super flat on the table?  FYI, these other blades that don't lie flat are narrow--3/16 to 1/8 inches.  And they were coiled (in case that can affect it).

A:

Yes, Flat is better, but not %100 required.  The wider the blade the more it can be bad.  But 'Flat' is also relative.  The biggest issue is how do they run once you put them on the saw under tension.
If you are REALLY worried about accuracy and clean cuts, how they are stored is MUCH LESS important than the quality of the blade you are starting with.  Most of the cheap blades you can buy in the store can 'do the job' of making a decent cut and tuning the saw itself can help make a good cut, but if you really want to do something like cut say Birdseye maple into veneer, then you need to put some real money into a first class blade designed to do such things.
Most bandsaw blades you can find for $10-$20 each.  My carbide tipped 1" blade for resawing cost me about $140 for the single blade. The cheap ones might be able to do 2-3 resaws if you are lucky without too much wandering but my carbide one should last for years if I don't hit a nail or something, and it can be resharpened (and would be worth it).
Thinner blades are much easier to bend and twist (usually on the saw while using it) and if you got a bunch of used blades with your used bandsaw, the issues quite likely were from the previous user.  How the blades are stored has little to do with it, unless they were kept where someone might step on them...

