Q:

Using cheap pipe clamps

I bought some cheap 3/4-inch pipe clamps, and they seem to be working alright, except for one thing. Even though the pipes fit pretty snugly, when I get something clamped up, it seems tighter on the area of the face nearer to the pipe than it is at the far edge. Currently I'm using construction shims to workaround the problem.
Is this something common with pipe clamps? Or just cheap ones?
EDIT: I found more problems with the cheapies, so I replaced them with Bessey clamps, which I am finding to be much easier to work with.

A:

Is this something common with pipe clamps?

Yes. There are a couple reasons for this. The first is that the screw on a pipe clamp usually meets the jaw at one point, and the jaw is free to pivot a bit on any direction. If the clamping force isn't centered right above the screw, the jaw may not stay parallel to it's counterpart on the other end of the clamp.
The second reason is that if you tighten the clamp enough, the pipe may flex. This is a lot more noticeable if you use 1/2" pipe, but even 3/4" pipe will flex under enough pressure, and when that happens then the jaws go out of parallel even if they were parallel to begin with.
Basically, pipe clamps are not parallel jaw clamps. Parallel clamps are designed to keep the jaws parallel even under high load; they have bars that are much more rigid and a mechanism that forces the jaw to move in line with the bar and not pivot.
Lots of people have used pipe clamps to put together a lot of projects, though. Two things that you can do are:

Use more clamps so that you don't have to tighten each one as much.
Alternate the clamps, so that half are on one side of the panel and the rest are on the other. That helps to prevent the bowing that can happen if all the clamps are on the same side.

A:

Is this something common with pipe clamps? Or just cheap ones?

You can expect this, but not for the reason you might expect. Even if your clamp heads are not cheaper or knock-off types and have perfectly parallel faces when they're not in use you can get this to some degree.
Flex is typical with pipe clamps, even at fairly modest lengths (where the pipe is stiffer) and not cranked up "too high" (more on this below). So even clamping faces that are parallel to begin with will end up non-parallel under load; this is why some clamps have heads with built-in toe-in to attempt to compensate.
This change in geometry under load is important to realise given the most popular woodworking glue is some form of PVA. The old thinking that joints "just need to be pinched tight" is based on older glues, but PVAs require high to very high clamp pressure to achieve their strongest bond1. And no, you don't need to worry about over-tightening of these powerful clamps yielding starved joints, this is a persistent myth when it comes to PVA2.
Pads or lining or both
So, given you can expect non-parallelism when the clamps are tightened as much as they typically should be you need to arrange something to compensate. Regardless of whether you make inserts or pads from wood, ply or MDF or just plan to use the jaws as-is, line them with something that has some yield — rubber, cork, crubber (cork/rubber composite), dense felt or thick leather. Or sort of do both in one by making slip-on pads from Homasote.
This also helps prevent marring of the edges of workpieces which pipe clamps are strong enough to do even on harder hardwoods, and without being cranked up to 11!
Other worthwhile tweaks or upgrades to pipe clamps:

Coat the pipe with shellac to help prevent black stains.
Wax3 the pipe well for the same reason as above (also makes them easier to adjust)
Make feet or spacers or stands
Use cauls to spread clamping pressure, reducing the number of clamps needed on large glue-ups

1 The difference in strength between joints just squeezed and clamped super-hard is considerable.
2 In actual fact it's impossible to over-clamp in a home workshop, something that you can confirm for yourself with a couple of quick experiments if you're interested on small samples using C-clamps (likely the strongest clamps you own).
3 In case you're a fan of James Wright, use straight wax for this, not a wax/oil mixture that he continually refers to as paste wax (it isn't).

