Q:

How to make proper pilot holes

This is related to the question about Replacing small drill bits without buying new sets (or preventing breaks) but I wanted to expand on this.
I think I'm just using cheap bits and much like the OP in the above question I am going through them like balsa wood. I also find that when I make pilot holes and countersinks that my wood is still prone to splitting. That and my bits are burning in hardwood (oak I think) so something is wrong there. 
Should I always be using brad point bits on wood? It is what they are for is it not? How do I know how big my pilot hole should be? In general I try to use a bit the same size as the shaft of the screw I'm using (width without the threads to be precise). 
How can I make better pilot holes. I've seen videos where you clip the end of a nail and use that but that seems more of a kludge than a solution. Worst case this could be a dupe of the other question.

A:

For most hard woods using a pilot hole the size of the shaft of the screw should be good enough to prevent splitting, since it is the shaft that would be 'pushing' out on the wood.
There are some that are hard enough that making the pilot hole larger than the shaft but still smaller than the threads is useful, but these are pretty hard woods and it is mostly to ease the driving of the screw.
The other two issues that could cause splitting would be putting the pilot hole to close to the edge of the board, and/or putting the screw in too tight.  when you have pilot holes and counter sinks in hardwoods, you don't need to over-tighten the screws, good and snug is perfect.  
It is easy to over-tighten with a power drill and the head of the screw with shaped funnel of the counter sink makes it easy to go to far and split the end of the board.
Comments from BrownRedHawk
Also, if your bits are burning, they could be overly dull and/or not enough feed pressure. Allowing the bits cutting face to slide can cause this. I've also had second hand bits sharpened inappropriately so the cutting face is narrower than the shank of the bit that caused excessive burning and poorly shaped holes.

