Q:

How to connect three pieces with screws?

I'm designing a small greenhouse 60x40cm 60cm high.
Since I'm not even an amateur woodworker, I won't dare use anything but screws to connect the pieces.
Are pocket screws ok to connect pilar and two beams?
Pilars are 3x3cm and others are 2x2cm. All pinus.
Sketchup file and stl 3d model are here
An image from the project:

I have basic tools like power drill, power screw driver, G clamps, chisels and a plane. Will have soon a ryoba saw and a work table (wx051 from worx).
Up to now I just screwed planks together to build plant stands on wheels.
The base will be on wheels. I live in an apartment and the greenhouse will stay at the balcony.

A:

One of the hardest skills to learn as a craftsperson is how to take your pretty plan and turn it into a real thing. And the single most important part of that is figuring out your order of operations. This is why it is important to consider the build process during planning, so you sweat the details like how it is assembled, and how the members meet and are fastened.
It makes no sense to me to try and balance three members going off at right angles to each other and trying to drive pocket screws at the same time. I'd recommend breaking the problem down into pieces.
For example, you have basically two face frames (or close enough for this conversation -- pedants will be ignored!). Assemble those, first. Your pocket screws will be on the inside mating the front and back members into their respective rectangular frames. Now what?
Well, we can see the problem that you've designed the sides to butt up against the frames. This isn't ideal if you want to manage racking, so maybe the sides are also a flat frame. Then you build up your box using four flat-assembled frames attached in some manner. Or maybe not. Maybe those long members connecting the front and rear frames are fine with a few pocket screws from below. Perhaps the box will stiffen up nicely once they are all in place and the notched bottom is in place.
But think about how you will assemble this thing from flat modules at the beginning so you minimize trying to coordinate three members in 3D space that would require some annoying clamping setup that you don't have the tools for anyway.
How to attach the roof part is left as an exercise for the reader.

