Q:

Is Marine Grade Plywood the same as Baltic Birch Plywood?

I have searched the website of my local big box hardware store (in Australia) for Baltic Birch Plywood with no results.  They do, however, have Marine Grade Plywood.  
The product description states:

Hardwood Plywood with "AA" grade face and back and marine grade bond.
  Excellent veneer quality makes this product ideal for staining and
  painting. Marine bond will not deteriorate due to moisture exposure.
  Excellent strength and stiffness.

"AA" grade face and back 

Marine strength bond 

Full hardwood construction 

Excellent strength and stiffness

Are these products the same or similar?

A:

No.  Baltic Birch is a specific product.  What you're looking at is not necessarily the same.  I can see a few differences right offhand.
Baltic Birch is all birch.  The product you're looking at specifies "full hardwood construction" but doesn't specify that it is birch.  It could be poplar or balsa or any other type of hardwood.
Baltic Birch has a high ply-count (13 ply for 3/4").  The product you're looking at doesn't specify this so it would probably be a lower count (thicker individual plies.)
The face and back grade is just that, how the front and the back look.  That has nothing to do with the construction.  You can get Baltic Birch (or any other type of plywood) with various grade and species of face veneers.
Buying plywood is, unfortunately, very complicated.  It's pretty hard to establish exactly what you're getting without actually working with it, or at least checking it out in person.

A:

If it doesn't say Baltic birch, the wood is probably not Baltic birch.
It doesn't say marine, it isn't intended for continuous exposure to water. Different adhesives, and again possibly different woods.
It sounds like the marine ply might be similar, depending on how many layers of veneer it has per inch and how void-free they are (both things that the Baltic birch plywood is usually good on). And as hardwood plywood goes, Baltic birch tends to be relatively affordable.
There are other kinds of hardwood plywood too, of course. One of those might or might not be easily findable...

