Q:

How can I cleanly cut a large circle out of plywood?

How can I cut a large (3.5' - 4' in diameter)  circle out of a 4x8 sheet of plywood. The preferred method would be one that doesn't leave any holes/marks in the circle's plywood surface. It needs to be as near perfect as possible (shape/edges of the circle). The circle cutout will be used as a table top. 
The tools that I have at my disposal are: Router, Dremel, circular saw, 10" table saw, 14" band saw, 10" drill press, jigsaw, and a lathe. 

A:

How can I cut a large circle out of a 4x8 sheet of plywood?

You sound like the perfect candidate for a router circle jig.  The one linked is available at Rockler, but they are easy enough to make yourself out of plywood.

The preferred method would be one that doesn't leave any holes/marks in the plywood surface.

The one pictured uses a pin to keep the jig centered.  This will leave a small hole in the plywood that you could either keep on the bottom side (assuming it doesn't go entirely through) or find a way to cover up.
Otherwise, you should be able to find a way to affix the circle template to the plywood in a non-marring way, such as using double-sided carpet tape.

There are other means to make a large circle, as identified in this related Question.  However, in my opinion, none will leave as nice of an edge finish as the router.

A:

You can cut a perfect circle top using your table saw.
To do this, you will need a jig (a large sheet of plywood with a pin on which the board being cut spins).
Cut off corners (on the work piece) to remove large amounts of excess material.  The first set of cuts take a square piece to an octagon.  Then cut off more corners.
Using the jig, you can slowly cut off the excess by spinning the work piece.
Here is one example I found showing this technique: Cutting large circles on the table saw
If you need to have both sides of the work piece without holes, you can attach it to a sacrificial board using double sided tape.

A:

Another option if you want to buy a tool for your Band saw, there are circle cutting jigs.  The Carter one can cut circles over 4' in diameter.  I have one of these, though I've only used it a couple times.  For flat stock it works pretty good, I bought it to cut bowl blanks round.  You need to have your band saw tuned up well to get best results.
[[

