Q:

Sealing plywood from moisture completely - for use as damp-reptile habitat

What would you guys suggest to completely seal wood (probably plywood) from moisture.
I'm building a new tank/vivarium for my lizard and while it is not going to be as damp as something like a frog tank, I still want it to be 100% sealed so I never have to worry about it (even if the inhabitants change down the road to something that needs to have rain-showers several times a day).
I've heard from reptile groups that people have used Pond Sealer, some people advise Drylock...
You are wood-working people though so I was hoping to get a more consistent answer here: What will leave the wood 100% moisture-proof, be completely vapour-free when cured (ie. safe for the inhabitant), and as a bonus: resist being scratched by smallish-reptile-claws (she digs at the walls in her tank occasionally).

A:

I'll preface this by saying that this may be a question that would be better asked on a forum of like-minded animal owners, some of whom will have tackled similar builds and they'll be able to report what worked and what didn't.
It is very difficult to seal wood off completely from moisture using common coatings and finishes. Most of the time when woodworkers say "seal the wood" they're speaking informally...... very informally, because most coatings only do a partial job of isolating the wood from its environment and some do almost nothing! 
Products that will 100% waterproof wood include bartop finishes, marine epoxy coatings and fibreglass resin, but in addition to their waterproof nature for a complete seal it also requires them to be put on thickly, the equivalent of perhaps 20 coats of regular varnish, so there is a very significant coating on the surface.
The good news is I don't think you need to go that far. Because many similar habitats I've seen, built mostly from plywood, seem to be finished off in basic coatings (probably varnish, based on the appearance and guesswork) and not in something visibly thick and with a slick, high-gloss finish. 
My suspicion is that if you use a decently water-resistant material (e.g. a suitable grade of plywood and/or any solid wood that naturally does well outdoors) and simply varnished it thoroughly that you'd get the performance you want. For this I'd use polyurethane* which has good scratch-resistance. Apply four full-strength coats minimum, but six or seven would be better. If you wipe the varnish on to make it easier to apply (see wiping varnish) you'll want to use at least 7-9 coats for an equivalent to four unthinned coats applied by brush.
*I mean oil-based poly here and not the waterbased type which is a completely different thing.

A:

I think your best bet would be epoxy. Although it is a pain to apply on large surfaces, it will address all your concerns.

It's 100% moisture proof (or as close as you can get),
quite scratch resistant as it is very hard when cured,
vapor free when cured (at least to the best of my knowledge, I researched this quite a lot a year or so ago and opinions vary on this point)

When working with epoxy I'd read up a bit on the topic though and watch a few tutorials and make a test piece at first. This stuff has a nasty smell while working it and there are more than a few health and safety concerns when handling epoxy one should be aware of.
One thing that might not be evident in most tutorials/guides: As you want this in a vivarium i guess there will be a heat-lamp. One aspect of the epoxy is that it will start to cure further when heat is applied. 
Meaning that if you let the epoxy cure at ~20째C (68째F) and then put it in the vivarium where right under the lamp you have temperatures exceeding 35째C (95째F) the chemical process will pick up once again and there will be vapors. That means you might want to cure the epoxy at a temperature exceeding the final temperature of your vivarium. This will make it even harder, but take even more time to cure (up to several days).

