Q:

How can I repair a split in a board?

I am making a top for a small child's table. It is 30" square and I jointed 3 10" wide pine boards to make it.
While I had it in a vise and was planing the end grain to clean up the marks left by the saw, the vise "let go" and it fell to my garage floor. The middle board suffered a small crack as a result. (The picture is a bit awkward and the angle isn't the best, but the split is on the end. The board is leaning against another one)
You can see a .25" chisel next to it for size comparison. I tried getting glue [edit: Titebond II] in the crack and using clamps to pull it together, but it is so small I wasn't able to get it in.  What is the best way to repair this?

A:

Catalog sites or local woodworking stores will likely sell a glue injector- it looks like a big needle. It's most often used to inject glue into chair joints.
Use a small screwdriver to open up the crack a bit, then use the injector to get glue in there, then pull the screwdriver and let the crack close.
If the crack is small, you may not even need to clamp it.
Of course, you could also turn the crack into a feature with a dutchman patch (instructions), like this:
Image courtesy of woodworkingtalk.com
There was a question about the picture used to describe the Dutchman patch. Related discussion about the Dutchman Patch: What is the difference between a dutchman patch and a butterfly patch?

A:

You didn't mention what type of glue you're trying to use for the repair, but if this is just a minor cosmetic defect it may be a nice application for CA (cyanoacrylate) glue, aka superglue. It's thinner than wood glue so it'll be easier to get it to seep into the crack.
You can use compressed air to blow the glue into the crack, or if the crack goes all the way through you can use a vacuum to pull it into the crack from the other side.  As with TX Turner's glue injector suggestion, it will help if you can bend or pry the crack slightly more open so it's easier to get the glue in.
Some other options include breaking or cutting the board all the way through and gluing it back together, or adding an inlay. If you go the inlay route, you could either use a butterfly inlay to strengthen the repair or if it's a really shallow crack, you could use a purely decorative inlay. Or you could take a page from the turners' playbook--a common solution for repairing cracks in turned pieces is to use a liquid turquoise inlay. If you do this, you'd probably want to carve out a larger channel as you would with the "solid" inlay techniques.

A:

I have used the very thin CA glues such as this stuff from Titebond in the past.  It works very well.  It is about as thin as water.  If you plan on finishing the surface with a stain, you should probably test it first on a scrap to make sure it won't blotch.  Ripping down the crack and re-gluing works well also, but you lose some width from the board.

