Q:

Sanding small corners of panel doors when refurbishing

I'm currently renovating my house and my first project is the doors. I've got some panel doors with very small edges, and I want to keep these edges nice and sharp.
I've put my paint skills to use and made a cross section (not to scale) of the (trim?) of my door. The red corners I want to keep sharp but it's quite easy to  accidentally round them and the green corners are difficult to reach.

I can manage quite well by hand but I've got 11 doors like this and am thus looking for tools which will make my life easier. I have got a rotary tool and was looking at sanding cones: 

However these are not readily available in the Netherlands nor do i know if it is the best attribute to use.
Some advice as how to best sand this would be appreciated.
Please note that I want to stay clear of chemical removers because scraping away the paint from this seems like a rather tricky thing. So I am mainly looking for sanding tricks which won't wear me out. However, if there is no better way I'll have to try it out.

A:

One solution is to get some epoxy putty and press it into the molding you're trying to sand.  Depending on the finish you might need some packing tape on the molding to make sure the epoxy doesn't stick to it.  You can also add a wood block to the back to give yourself something to hold on to.  Once the epoxy has cured use a spray adhesive to attach sandpaper to your new custom sanding block.
If you are willing to spend a bit of money you could also try attaching a (larger) block like this to a pneumatic straight-line sander.  I don't think this would really be economical for the quantity you're talking about though.
You can also use spray adhesive to attach sandpaper to anything you think will get in the cracks you're sanding.  Some good starters are putty knives, short sections of dowel, wood blocks, or flexible material like plastic from a 2-liter bottle (useful for faring small curves) or very thin plywood (useful for fairing bigger curves.)
There are also pre-made sanding sponges with various angles on them, but they seem rather expensive to me.

