Q:

How do you straighten/bend wood planks without removing any material?

I have some 6' long 2"x12" planks of douglas fir that dried into a twist, I need to straighten it out but I don't want to plane this any thinner. So basically I'm trying to bend the board back into shape.
I was thinking of doing something like physically twisting the board the other way past its yield point, and hoping the board does not snap. Maybe I could try steam bending to straighten wood.
I am planning on making 6' long benches and shelves with this material, for indoor use.

A:

Steam bending would be your only option. Wetting the fibers and allowing them to bend and twist.  It might not work, but there is a chance.  Not using a moister measure, you will just split the wood where the stresses get to great.  
On top of that, you will have to redry the wood back to where you need it and you will need to keep a lot of weight on it so it will dry flat.  Otherwise it will just rebend and twist.
Birch likes to bend and twist when it dries, but if you keep it flat with weight (like more drying wood on top) it will dry flat and stay that way (mostly).  
Ultimately it will be a bit of work and it might be easier to just acquire new lumber for your project.  

A:

The other answers have covered how you can bend the wood, but one thing they left out relates to the length of the wood.  The following applies to some other defects too like bows.
You mentioned you have 6ft boards, but you don't say what your final board length will be.  If the length will be shorter than 6ft, then it would be advisable to cut them to approximate length before attempting to correct the defect.  The twist might be noticeable over 6ft, but it won't be as severe over 2ft, you might even get a 2ft section with no noticeable twist. 
Once you have a shorter board, you will have an easier time correcting it.  In the case where you are removing material, you will end up removing a lot less wood than if you did the entire board at once. This applies to running wood through a jointer as well.

A:

Bending using heat (usually steam) is one of the only ways to bend wood reliably. But, when a board twists as it dries that is usually not permanently fixable because the wood may have 'taken a set'. So while you could steam, bend back to perfectly flat and hold it there until it has cooled, and it may stay that way initially, it is likely to have a natural tendency towards warping back to the twisted shape again in time.
Because of this, generally, when a piece of wood does twist or bow when drying the usual way to get flat wood from it is to remove material until a flat board is revealed from within the bowed board. Obviously there can be a significant loss of thickness when doing this (and some loss in width) and sometimes it is so great that the board can't be used as originally intended.

