Q:

Which side of a cupped table top has absorbed more humidity (and other causes for warping)?

Quality table tops are built from many smaller pieces of wood, which are then glued together. (Here we focus on table tops, not on butcher blocks, where multiple long beams are glued, then cut into successive slices.)
The pattern on the table top easily identifies how it was assembled.

The advantage of assembly in this way is to reduce the effect of shrinkage or expansion of any one piece of wood. Even if one warps, its effect will be small, and there is a good chance it will be held in place by the adjacent pieces. If the stress does cause trouble, the difficulty will be limited to the development of a crack on one side of the table, and an additional bit of glue may well solve the problem by maintaining the integrity of the table top.
Despite all this, a table top made as shown in the pattern above can eventually warp.

What causes this cupping? The many pieces of wood have now cupped as a single element, and so the stress from any one of them is not responsible.
One thought is the following: If a table top has cupped and now looks like the sketch above, then that means that the bottom side has absorbed more humidity than the top side, because wood expands when the space between the cells absorbs humidity.
Is this correct? Sag is of course potentially another cause, but we assume here that the table top was resting on a rectangular frame underneath that reached to nearly cover all four sides.
We're not even talking yet about how to fix the problem, merely about the effect of humidity on such a table top.

A:

What causes this cupping?

This is a little more complex than just about moisture loss and gain, it's to do with long-term changes in wood as these effects take place.
What in essence makes a tabletop (as well as deck boards incidentally) cup in this way is compression set. The wood on top gets wet/wetter and tries to expand, as wood naturally does when it takes on moisture, but it is unable to do this as much as it needs to. So the wood fibres become compressed.
Over time this effect builds up, and eventually you reach the point where the top of the deck board/tabletop is substantially compressed, and weakened — which is why it may be impossible to rectify this problem on a tabletop by e.g. moistening the top to get it to expand, holding the top in its flatter state with clamps and letting it dry out. What very often happens is that once the clamps are removed the top bends again, at least partially1, back to its former shape. This is why I said in your other current Question that some fairly major intervention may be necessary to resolve this issue.
Read more about compression set at the following links:
Finish Both Sides? Not Necessary. by Bob Flexner on Popular Woodworking.
Decking boards: which side up? on Fine Homebuilding (answer by R. Bruce Hoadley, author of the very important Understanding Wood).
Straightening a Warp [ Compression Set ] on the Millcreek Woodworking blog.

1 But sometimes almost completely, which is very disheartening!

