Q:

Is making this picture frame do-able?

My wife would like me to build her a picture frame, but she has some requirements.

She wants it to look like metal.  (She apparently found a spray paint that makes it look metal).
She wants the visible portion of the frame to be no more than 1/4" wide.

(She basically wants a metal frame, but doesn't want to pay 60$ for it, since it's a custom size)
Now, here's my reservations with this....

If the visible portion of the frame is 1/4" wide, that means the rabbet holding the picture/glass would be around 1/8" - is this enough material to support the picture/glass?
Again, if the rabbet is 1/8" - That's REALLY thin material spanning from the front of the frame to the back of the frame.  I picture this not being thick enough to prevent breaking.
I don't know if I have the tools and expertise to cut pieces this thin...  A 1/4" piece with a 1/8" rabbet?

My only possible solutions for this:

Use PVC trim pieces.  They may be able to withstand forces better, being only 1/8" thick.
Build the frame without a rabbet.  Use a router and a slot cutting bit to route out a slot in the frame - it doesn't necessarily need to be 1/8" - just enough to keep the picture held in.  Fashion a slot at the top of the frame.  Instead of setting the picture in from the back, I'd drop it in from the top, which wouldn't be visible.

Thoughts?

A:

Here is another approach to the frame design.  A 1/4" wide frame will not be very supportive so you must beef it up. You haven't mentioned how large the picture is, but unless it is very large you can hold the picture and glass only at the corners and create a more substantial wood frame that is behind the picture. The only exposed portion of the frame is the 1/4" edging, but it is glued to the real support frame behind for continuous support.  Instead of mitering the corners, you can create slightly larger corner blocks that to secure the picture and glass to the frame.  I have used a similar approach on several frames and the emphasized corners look good (in my opnion). You can either have the glass edges finished by the glass shop for a smooth appearance or hide them behind a 1/8" rabbet using Charlie Kilian's technique described in his comment .

