Q:

How do I clamp box joints?

When making box joints, per a number of articles I've read, I've left the fingers a touch longer than the thickness of the board.  So if I'm making joints on 1/4" plywood, my fingers might be 5/16" long, and then I just sand them down at the end.  Some authors (Matthias Wandel as an example) even suggest cutting the fingers with a table saw.
An issue I'm encountering with these is that it becomes difficult to clamp the joint tight, since a clamp ends up pressing on the extension of the fingers sticking out, not the second board you are trying to clamp.  I tried clamping a square to inside of the joint, which works well for keeping the joint square, but doesn't seem to apply enough pressure to pull the fingers tightly together.
Is making the fingers a tad longer poor advice, or is there another way to clamp this type of joint?  I had considered making a jig with fingers and just a small amount of wood, but with 1/4" plywood, and only 1/16" excess material, it seems unlikely this would stay in place with clamping pressure.

A:

For clamping box joints, I've found that offsetting the clamps just to the inside of the fingers ensures you will be able to pull the corners tight.  With the clamps there, you will still be pulling the joint closed while introducing relatively no bending to the boards.  Picture below (source: RodsWoodworking.com).

You could, as you suggested, make some jig with matching fingers that interlace with the box joint, giving you bearing on the portion of the joint you're trying to press.  This can be rather tedious though, since you need to make a minimum of eight (two per corner) to properly clamp a box, possible more depending how deep the box is.  As suggested by @keshlam, you can buy box joint cauls that serve this purpose.
Another way I've seen is to use offset blocks (or cauls) and then clamp around the entire assembly using ratchet straps.  This is illustrated in the picture below (source: LumberJocks).

Per the suggestion of @keshlam, it's prudent to coat wooden cauls with packaging tape (or another surface that glue will not stick to) so that they don't become part of your box inadvertently.  Also, you might try lining the very edge of your joint with blue tape to catch any squeezeout, similar to the image below (source: StartWoodworking.com)

A:

I tried clamping a square to inside of the joint, which works well for keeping the joint square, but doesn't seem to apply enough pressure to pull the fingers tightly together.

I think that's basically the right idea but could do with being implemented differently:

[Source: Wood Magazine]
Another option that you might like to consider is something similar to this:

As you can see the clamping blocks themselves support the thin stock and work simultaneously to keep it straight while providing the necessary clamping action to squeeze the joint firmly.

Is making the fingers a tad longer poor advice

I wasn't familiar with this prior to your question but I think I can see why this might be advisable in some situations.
I would however recommend that you not do this if your cuts don't result in unacceptable amounts of chipout, as it saves on later work while simultaneously makes clamping more straightforward during the assembly phase.

