Q:

Tips for planing huge panels of joined wood

Somewhat akin to the purpose behind this question (Recommendation for manual planing and sanding), I am seeking advice from some experts that would help a hobbyist such as myself trying to manufacture large panels of wood made by joining together (mostly by glue - no fancy biscuit, dovetails, or dowel joints).  I even ran into problems when I had access to a decent variety of equipment at a hobby wood shop, when the thickness planers feed width was smaller than the width of the panel I was trying to prepare.  
Since I figure cabinet makers make some pretty big armoires and wardrobes, how do you smooth up the glue joints and even up the panels so that they are nice and level?  Hand planes (manual and electric) would probably only give excellent results in the hands of the truly skilled.  
Are the thickness planers and hand tools described in both the question and answers in the linked question above really the only options?

A:

Find a local cabinet shop or woodworking store that has a wide belt sander.  My local hardwood supplier will run panels through their 50" wide sander for just a few bucks.
My planer will handle a 13" wide board.  If I need a large panel, I'll do the minimal amount of planing possible on the raw boards, then glue them into sub-panels less than 13".  Once those are together and planed flat, I'll join them into my final panel, use a hand plane to get it close, then take the panel in and with just a few passes through the belt sander, it is perfect.

A:

I do some guitar building, and guitars happen to be just wider than standard planers. So, I build a planer sled for my router. Depending on your overall width, this could be useful for you.
some pictures of my set up
Flat plywood, with 2 square rails. Then I attached my router to a sled of plywood that is reinforced for stability. 

I was using a 1/2" bit, but there are wider bits that may be more suited to the task.

Planing in process.

Admittedly, I was removing a lot more material than you likely are.

A:

I have used cabinet scraper in situations like this. Get the wood lined up really well by using cauls to keep the faces in line, and a very sharp scraper to remove the glue lines. 
Scrapers are great at removing glue and planer marks (wash boarding) on smaller projects, it is labor intensive and the results are great.

