Q:

What learning material will you recommend to a novice hobbyist woodworker?

I've picked up woodworking as a hobby recently and currently my main learning resource is YouTubers. I've spent a couple hundred bucks on a few cheap power tools (jigsaw, circular saw, sander, drills) and seeing this isn't a "phase" I'm now thinking about getting a good quality miter saw (DeWalt or Bosch).
As part of going deeper into woodworking I want to consider a better laid-out and more professional learning experience (although woodworking will remain a hobby). Either books, specific youtubers you think are worthwhile or other online training programs that are appropriate for my level and tool-set.
I'm better at learning something as I need it, so I rather have something that was also designed as a reference so I can get the things I need instead of going over it start-to-finish, although of course that's not always possible.

A:

There are MANY resources out there and many different topics to want to learn.
A list of ideas.

New Yankee Workshop I suspect many episodes are available on YouTube and other similar woodworking TV shows.  Most episodes should have a way to search for tools or projects you'd like to learn about.

LOTS of books.  Amazon has a lot of books by a lot of woodworkers written from the last 50 years or more.  Most of what you can get out of the old books is still going to be true today, other than we have more tools available for tasks and a lot more gluing finishing options.  Many libraries have a pretty good collection as well so you can save on the costs there.

I suspect most power tool manufacturers have YouTube videos of their tools in action and hopefully user guides and prime safety instructions as well.  Many might have these as a way to promote their tools and all the things you can do with them (hopefully safely).

Makers Space / community ed / community collages. All require some upfront costs but you can get professional training at all 3 by taking classes.

a. Makers Space - I haven't used these yet but have known several different people who have and all enjoy them.  You can get a membership to be able to use the tools they have, they have classes available for a fee (don't usually need to be a member to take the class but I believe you get a discount if you are).  They will teach you how to do different things and can show you how to use the equipment which with a membership you can continue to use.  Most have quite a bit of the big spendy stuff you can't afford to have or even the space to keep it.  So you can use their stuff and finish it at your home shop!
b. Community Ed.  - I don't know how common these classes are any more but they used to be available.  In my area we have a couple 'folk schools' which offer these kinds of classes now, they offer a wide range, similar to Maker Spaces but they are entirely geared to teaching, not being open for community members to just walk in any time and use the facilities.
c. Community/Tech colleges - Not all, but many offer woodworking classes and you don't need to be going for a degree or program to get into many of these. They are probably the most expensive of the lot but the training is the most intense and you can walk away with some great finished projects.  My dad took one of those 30 years ago and made all the kitchen cabinets, I think he might have had to take the course twice to get it all done, but they were beautiful and lasted as long as we lived there.

if your lucky you might have some woodworking clubs in your area and would be a great source of knowledge and probably specific books and other resources to help on specific projects.

The more you learn the better you'll be able to decide which YouTuber's are worth following and which should be avoided.

A:

I recommend following youtube channels (roughly in descending order of "beginner friendliness"):

Rex Krueger: https://www.youtube.com/c/RexKrueger
Stumpy Nubs: https://www.youtube.com/c/StumpyNubs
Paul Sellers: https://www.youtube.com/c/PaulSellersWoodwork
Wood By Wright: https://www.youtube.com/c/WoodWright
Rob Cosman:  https://www.youtube.com/c/RobCosmancom
Edit: while I would still recommend watching his videos, it's probably better to watch them AFTER you have learned a lot from the others.

ALL of them are either extremely good woodworkers, or extremely good teachers or both. I myself learned most of what I know from these people.
Disclaimer: I am mostly hand-tools oriented, so there is a bias towards hand-tools, but most of those people I recommend work with both hand-tools and power tools - and I think it's good to know some hand tool techniques even if you mostly work with power tools and vice versa, even if I like hand tool work most, some jobs are just better handled by power tools.

