Q:

Milling wide lumber to square

I recently obtained some old (50 to 75 years old) rough sawn hardwood structural framing members 2x8 and 2x10 by various lengths.  The wood is well acclimated to my shop but has some warping which requires treatment on my jointer and thickness planer.  The problem is that my jointer bed is 6" wide.  Is there an effective process for using the jointer on these wider boards?

A:

See past comments re using a sled to stabilize the piece so a planer can be used as a wide jointer. e.g.This one
If you don't want to build a sled, another approach is gluing reasonably straight "rails" to each edge of the board (not the ends) to hold it in a consistent position. The tops of the rails will be planed away as you flatten the board, but if there's no hardware present that's harmless. Hot glue has the advantage of being easy to remove when you're done, though more aggressive glues could be cut free.
Or consider hand-planing to flatten.
Note that if you plan to cut shorter lengths, doing so before jointing may let you retain more wood since the wind will be less per board.

A:

Bring in some other tools
This would seem blasphemy to do to wood of this age but you could consider cutting the boards down their length and laminating them once you make them square. If you are already cutting them square then the natural character that this wood would have would be removed anyway. 
Table saw and band saw come to mind. They should be able to handle the wood size. depending on how significant the warp is you would need to use sled jigs, featherboards, clamps etc. to ensure the wood does not move during the cutting. 
Reduce waste
You don't necessarily need to do so down the middle but perhaps somewhere to complement the warp so that the two boards individually become flatter. Advantage here is that you would reduce the overall wood that needs to be removed in order to get the boards square. This advice is more geared towards cupping in boards when cutting along the length. If you have other forms of warp then you might need to cut across the width. Goal is the same regardless: Try to get straighter individual boards. See a good image on warp: How to straighten a warped board
Less wear on the tools and yourself and hopefully more yield when you are dealing with straighter wood. 
Then you should be able to put them through the jointer and planner for squaring. Then, once the boards are square and cleaned up, you could laminate them back together again. Assuming the project calls for it. 

