Q:

Know if a round is right for tablemaking?

Due to city code, I cut down this massive tree, which was used for a tire swing. I happen to need a coffee table so I want to select a round to turn into a resinated coffee table. But I am worried I will pick the wrong piece! A lot of pieces have mold, some pieces have holes from bugs, and some pieces may have some locked-in moisture.
Can you give me a guide to selecting the perfect round? I want to get the biggest one possible. Also, I hope to know how thin to cut it. I want to use it as a tabletop.
As far as I know, there are only 3 things to consider:

Is it properly dried (are there moisture pockets)?
Any rot or soft spots? Any undesirable splits?
Are there bugs, and if so can you kill them?

In terms of plaining, I was thinking to make the table about 4 inches thick, but I don't have a milling machine. Maybe I could just use a chainsaw.
About the wood: the tree was cut down two years ago and the rounds were cut out last year; so, the rounds dried in the elements for a year. They did sit in the snow, but due to the way they were positioned, the selected rounds had no notable rot. Over the past 3 months, two specific pieces were covered with a tarp and left in the garage. So, my thought was to thin-slice several pieces and then do additional drying (like with a desiccant in a sealed container) and see which slice looked best after.

A:

Can you give me a guide to selecting the perfect round?

The simple answer is no.
This is separate to what you consider to be perfect not being specified in the Question. If we just make certain assumptions that amount to: hoping to select a round that's as flawless as possible there's no way of knowing in advance which pieces will end up that way.
The current condition of any given slice from the trunk of a tree is zero predictor of how they'll end up after drying is complete1. And even after something is considered well seasoned cracks can still sometimes show up later.
As you'll see if you look around online, just the initial drying of rounds or 'cookies' is fraught with difficulties and getting consistently good results is at least as much about luck as about careful planning and execution. Yields of usable rounds can be as low as 10%, even in the hands of someone with lots of experience.
So in short, you can do everything right and the round you selected to use will still crack.

1 And this is irrespective of the species, the current moisture content of the wood, how long they've been sitting there on the ground drying the wrong way (hence the many existing drying cracks), the future drying conditions, the health of the tree when alive and various other unknowns.

