Q:

Why shouldn't I shake my can of polyurethane?

I was going to ask this question after getting some misleading information from my can of poly, other questions and answers here and from my own experience.
What I never understood was why should I not shake the can? The instructions from Minwax's website don't really explain why, but state:

Stir Minwax® Fast-Drying Polyurethane before and during use to eliminate settling on the bottom of the can. Stir in such a manner as to rotate the product from the bottom to the top of the can. NEVER SHAKE

emphasis mine.
Barring spilling the product all over the place; what am I risking if I shake the can?

A:

Apparently it's the bubbles
The concern is that the agitation of the can will create bubbles. Brushing poly will transfer those bubbles to the work and there will be a good chance they will dry/cure in place. That would of course ruin the work or extend the finishing process as you would have to sand an reapply.
That is sort of right.
There is a great article that Graphus linked my too that covers 7 Myths of Polyurethane. No sense copying the entire portion of that post here but the main points are:

It is true that bubbles can cause issues. Bubble creation is inevitable though whether you shake the can or not. 
Using the brush you are going to create bubbles regardless with agitation. 
Most bubbles will naturally pop. A recommended step with poly is to lightly brush back (also called tipping-off). That should remove the rest of the bubbles. 
If you still have bubbles after that you can still lightly wipe something like mineral spirits over the surface to dissolve the bubbles. Used in moderation this will not negatively affect any of the finish work done thus far. Worst case a light sanding with very fine sandpaper (400 or greater) should help. In my experience I would avoid sanding as to not remove too much finish by accident. Rarely would I still expect bubbles at this point).

You are going to get bubbles in any event. Does that mean you should run the can of poly in a paint mixer? Probably no. However as long as you know how to deal with the bubbles and clean them before the finish sets you are not going to have any issues. 

