Q:

Is it better to let the tool run or stop in-between cuts?

When I started woodworking, I used to setup my tool, do a cut, stop my tool, re-position my piece (or take another one), start my tool, do another cut, stop, etc.
Today, I find myself leaving the tool run in-between cuts a lot more than I used too.  It's more time efficient, but is it more dangerous?  Is it better on the motor?
All it in all, is there a preferred method of working with stationary power tools such as table saws, jointers, router tables, drill presses, etc.

A:

Generally, that is the right thing to do. Obviously you wouldn't let a power tool run all day when you don't need it, or even walk away and let it run unattended. But keeping it running in between making several cuts in a couple of work pieces or drilling several holes is absolutely fine (I am almost inclined to say "best practice").
For the tool as well for work efficiency, it is a huge deal better to keep the tool running for reasonable amounts of time. On/off cyles are what generally limits the lifetime of switches and electronics (although their count is typically in the 6-digit order), and both the force (and thus wear) acting on and the power consumed by the electro motor is highest when switched on. Please refer to the Wikipedia Inrush Current article for an explanation why switching a tool on is stressful to its electric components. While it is possible to somewhat mitigate the effect, there is no way to eliminate it alltogether, it's just the way physics work.
The prank described in the second half of Bastard Operator From Hell, episode 7, is based on that very effect: "...clicky..clicky...clicky... BOOM".
Many modern tools have a rapid stop functionality for operational safety, which is no more than a motor brake that brings the blade to a halt within a second or two (so basically switching off may be seen as switching "on" in some way as the tool is going from running at "idle" load into "full yield" reverse).
If you have dust collection or suction / vac on automatic (master/slave), each on/off cycle further counts twice (once on the tool and once on the suction). On the other hand, having dust collection run for longer than absolutely necessary is surely rather an advantage than a disadvantage. It'll pick up some extra dust which you're not going to inhale. Fine. No harm done.
There is of course the concern of having a power tool run being dangerous by definition. Running it longer means more exposure to danger.
Opinions will inevitably differ on this point, bit my stance is that if you cannot assure safe operation of a power tool for prolonged time, you should better not use it at all.
Power tools are dangerous, maiming and possibly lethal things, treating them with appropriate respect and safety measures as to exclude the possibility of an injury is a mandatory precondition. In that case, it doesn't matter if the saw is running for a minute longer. On the other hand, if you can't assert that, stay away from them.

A:

It's more time efficient, but is it more dangerous? 

I think as long as any guards are in place and normal safety procedures are followed as mindfully as they should always be followed there's little increased danger. That's not to say there's none, and individual mileage as always will vary.
You list table saws, jointers, router tables and drill presses and I think this very much depends on each tool so it would be best to approach thinking about this on a tool-by-tool basis rather than looking for an overall idea of acceptable/preferable practice. 

Is it better on the motor?

I think it can be, although it depends on the tool. And the key factor may be just how long it's left running. Industrial-level tools have very long 'duty cycles', where there may be an expectation that they have to have the motor running continually for an hour or longer at times. Consumer tools are not built as robustly and the potential for overheating when run for longer periods is higher, particularly in hot weather (temperature in the shop is definitely a factor).
Also the type of tool I'm sure must matter, table saws and especially jointers or thicknesses are obviously intended for working for longer periods compared to say a typical drilling operation. 
But start-and-stop operation I presume is considered normal for drill presses so drilling, stopping and drilling again should be perfectly fine. And certainly you shouldn't be adjusting a workpiece underneath a spinning bit, that just strikes me as bad practice generally. Note: this is not to say that a drill is put at risk if run continually for long periods, many people use their drills for drum sanding, buffing, with wire wheels, even for turning operations, without apparent harm to the motors. But the quality of the tool probably matters a lot here.
With routers, they spin very fast and the motor and other internals are being stressed as a result so within reason I would want to stop the tool and let it cool periodically even if you might want to run piece after piece past the bit for extended periods, e.g. when doing long lengths of moulding. This may be unduly cautious but I would feel more comfortable doing it this way myself with a consumer-level router.

