Q:

How to trace a piece of wood with curved edges

I have a metal bench (like a park bench) with wood around the edges, but the wood is extremely worn and I would like to replace it. Because the top and bottom of the bench is curved, I am going to try to trace the existing wood pieces and use my bandsaw to match.
Of course, the existing wood doesn't have square edges which makes it difficult to trace a line that would perfectly match the width without letting the pencil creep under the curve. As I thought to myself how I might ensure a perfect trace (using a regular #2 pencil), I thought I might angle the pencil such that the angled tip is flush against the side. Hopefully that makes sense... but if not don't worry because while in theory this should work if I am extremely careful, I'm not that careful.
The above is my thought process so far, but I'm trying to find a better way to match the existing piece upfront because experience tells me if I go forward with this first idea off the top of my head I'm just going to end up with something that requires way too much extra effort to correct afterward. (And maybe I'm wrong about that; maybe this is a common solution, which is why I'm asking the question to find out).
I did see a Stumpy Nubs video just now about using a router table to create positive/negative templates and realized that if I had a router table I ought to be able to match the curve on another piece of wood pretty easily by stacking them. However, I don't have a router; much less a router table. I do plan to buy a hand held router, but a table is out of the question at this time. Not sure if I could easily accomplish the same with a handheld router?
So the question is a) Do I try the pencil trace method and use a bandsaw to cut?, or b) would a handheld router give me decidedly better results?, or c) is there another superior method that hasn't yet entered my mind?

A:

I've seen a couple/few complex hacks over the years for doing this that, and while some are very interesting TBH they're just not worth the effort.
So, great tip for this I've seen used by some when tracing the complex shape of saw handles: sand the end of your #2 pencil in half.
Doesn't actually have to be in half exactly, just enough to expose the lead. This way the edge of the piece to be traced and the edge of the pencil are in alignment, so no offset error as normal with a pencil. Simples.

