Q:

Will forcing a twisted drawer front flat cause issues?

I'm working on cherry drawer fronts for a dresser with inset drawers. The drawer in question is 38" wide and about 8" tall. The drawer itself is 1/2 Baltic Birch.
The board has already been cut to size, including thickness, but I discovered that it had a twist when testing the fit for the final thickness (I should have caught it sooner. Lesson learned in rushing the milling process...).
The thickness is approximately 5/8", and the twist causes one corner to stick out about 1/8".
Since the board is already thicknessed, my question is: would it be ok to clamp it flat to the drawer and use additional screws to hold it flat? I was thinking just two screws per drawer front, but for this one thought maybe four or six would hold it flat and prevent the twist from coming back.
Of course, using a new board could be a last resort option, but all of the drawer fronts are currently from the same board, so color/grain match won't be as perfect as they are now.
I've seen other solutions regarding steam usage (particularly this question), but I wonder if the steam is necessary when a few additional screws may do the job. Or if I should use both steam and extra screws since most steam suggestions also warn against it re-twisting.
This is only my 3rd furniture project, so I'm still at the stage where this problem could be a big deal, or no deal at all, I just don't have the experience to know.

A:

Will forcing a twisted drawer front flat cause issues?

Maybe.
This is a try-it-and-see thing. You have to check whether your drawer front has enough strength
1 to distort your plywood drawer. With luck this'll work fine and you can proceed as normal.
If you're unlucky and test-clamping the front to the drawer body does distort it you'll either have to attempt remedial action on the board (i.e. unwarp it, and hope it stays that way), or make a new front, as I don't think you can easily beef up the drawer box enough to make it immune to being forced out of square, although this is possible.

For any future searchers unfamiliar, this relates to what I think are now most commonly called false-front drawers.

The basic idea is you build a drawer box — four sides and a bottom — and then (usually later, after the drawer is installed in the cabinet or carcass) the "false" or decorative front is attached, usually with screws from inside2.

1 Based on the amount of warp and the thickness of the board.
2 This type of construction used to be rare (back in the days of all-dovetail drawer construction) but is now extremely common, especially in factory-made furniture.

