Q:

Easiest way to make 5000 cuts'?

I want to make about 200 bracelets using wooden "beads" which I will cut from 9mm x 9mm x 2400mm square stock. I have 15 of these totalling 36 meters in length. Once I have profiled the stock, how can I cut it easiest? I cannot use a bandsaw or circular saw, the only power saw I have available is a scroll saw, I have access to hand saws, however. I need to make 5000 3mm slices, preferably within a few hours. I am unsure on the wood, however its very cheap so I assume pine, as the stock is cut from a larger board. What would be the best method? 

A:

The important thing is to set up a jig or fixture so you can quickly and easily make repeat cuts.  You could rig up a fence/guide and sled for your scroll saw and use a very fine blade, but for such small cuts I would make a miter box with a stop block set for the proper length, then gang up a few at a time and cut with a 22 or so TPI hand saw.
Because you're working with very small pieces, you could use a small miter box like the ones used in model making.

A:

I need to make 5000 3mm slices, preferably within a few hours. 

Best of luck with that! If we assume "a few hours" is three hours that's one cut every 21 seconds with no breaks or pauses. If you decide to go with hand-cutting these ganging the strips up as recommended in rob's Answer is the only way you're likely to be able to do this in the timeframe you've set yourself. 
Although I realise you might have no choice in the matter, personally, this is the type of thing I would strongly resist doing to a very tight schedule but instead approached in a piecemeal manner, plodding along at a comfortable pace over a couple of days until you're done. It's both stressful and mind-numbingly boring to power through it in the minimum time possible.
Sawn v. milled
Not sure if you'd thought about the quality of the sawn surface. You mention you're profiling the stock, since you can't or won't want to sand the sawn surfaces you need to be able to use them straight from the saw and not every saw is capable of achieving a cut that smooth. So you might need to buy a saw, or a blade for the scroll saw, specifically for this job. 
More work
Sorry, but your work isn't done once you've finished sawing. You don't specify the wood you're using but regardless of the species you're going to get some splintering on the exit face no matter how fine the saw used, so to be realistic you need to factor in not a little extra time for clean-up sanding, unless you can rig up some kind of tumbler to clean up the blocks in large batches or all at once. 
Note that tumbling will slightly round all corners and edges. 

