Q:

How do I look for a table saw blade with non-angled teeth?

I'm thinking about building this box joint jig so I can make my joints with a single blade (rather than having to pull out my dado set). The problem is that I've got one of them fancy Freud blades that has angled teeth (adjacent teeth are pointed in a different direction). It makes great, clean, quiet cuts, but for non-through cuts, it leaves a little ridge.
I know they make tablesaw blades that don't have the angle on their teeth, but I can't find identify where it's listed online whether it's angled or not. Is there a generic name or description for this type of blade?

A:

You want to pay attention to the type of tooth grind, which describes how the individual teeth are shaped. Vermont American has a good resource for types of grinds. Any grind combination with at least one flat tooth should give you a flat-bottomed cut.
So good candidates would be:

Flat Top Grind (often used for ripping)
Triple Chip Grind (for hard, abrasive materials)
Multipurpose Carbide Tip (ripping, crosscutting)
Tri-Grind (general combination grind)

Your best bet is likely a Flat Top Grind, since there are no angled teeth that may protrude above the height of the flat teeth. Many ripping blades are FTG, so just check the description prior to buying.

A:

Let's talk teeth! There are more types of grinds, but I feel these are the applicable ones for your question:
Flat top (FT/FTB)
 An FT or FTB blade is one which has flat teeth that you're looking for.

Alternate Top Bevel (ATB)
An Alternate Top Bevel (It will be marked ATB on the blade) is one which has alternating beveled teeth, like the one you mentioned.

Combination/"all purpose"
There are also combination or "all-purpose" blades which have "groups" of teeth, a set of ATB teeth, followed by one flat top tooth.

Branding
You're likely to see an FT blade marketed as a rip blade and an ATB marketed as a cross cut blade. The blades will also probably be marked wit the cut, though you can also just look at them and see.
So which one?
The problem you're likely ton encounter is that FT blades are typically meant for ripping, which means you're going to have a smaller number of teeth (they're meant to take big bites), where an ATB blades are for cross cuts, so they are likely to have the larger number of teeth you're looking for.
Combination blades have a large number of teeth, and that finishing flat tooth may get you the flat bottom you're looking for. I think this is probably what you'll want, if the Forrest blade Lee mentioned doesn't do it for you (Forum posts and reviews seem to indicate it's good, but it is pricey).

A:

Forrest sells a blade which is totally flat.  If you have an old saw blade that needs resharpening, most sharpening companies can regrind your blade when they sharpen it to make it a flat top grind.

