Q:

Creating a shallow recess in Ikea countertop for sink flange

I am installing new butcher block-style counters in my kitchen.  The new sink has a flat flange around the edge. (It is made to work as as undermount or a drop-in.)
I want to drop in the sink. Ideally, I'd like the top of the sink flange to be flush with the top of the counter. I'm wondering what is the most precise way to shave 1/16" (or less) of the countertop down.
I figured I would drop the sink in its cutout, then use a utility knife to trace around the flange. Then remove the sink, and shave down the counter between the scribe mark and cutout. Any tips on how to remove just a tiny amount of countertop?
A router seems like more tool than you want in this situation, but maybe it could be adjusted to make such a shallow cut?
A chisel seems like it would be hard to control for such a shallow cut.
Do I want to use a hand plane along my knife edge?
Background: My butcher block is from IKEA. It has a beautiful walnut herring bone pattern. Over particle board. The veneer is plenty thick, and my kitchen sees more microwaving than baking from scratch, so I think it will last just fine. But under-mounting the sink isn't an option.

A:

A router would be the normal tool to use for this.  You could also use a router plane if you prefer hand tools.
Scoring a line around the outline of the flange is a good idea.  Cut out most of the waste with the router then clean to the line with a sharp chisel.  Referencing the chisel on the flat left by the router should let you continue the flat surface very accurately.
You can set the router to the exact depth of the sink flange by first "zeroing" the depth by putting the base on a flat surface and plunging the router bit to touch the surface.  Then capture the flange between the router's depth stop and the turret the depth stop hits.  Lock the depth stop, then when you plunge the bit will be exactly the depth of the flange.
Since you're not removing much depth you can use a larger bit to get a cleaner bottom surface.

