Q:

Can I apply a wood veneer on stairs?

I have finished my pine stairs recently. I am not that happy with the end result as the wood colour doesn't match my floor (long story).
I am seeking solutions and friend suggested applying a an oak veneer (0.8mm). He is not exactly an expert, but if this worked it could actually be a good solution.
I am bit skeptical since stair are subject to a great wear.
Can I apply a veneer on stairs?

A:

Veneers are very common on premade stair treads, but the question is could you apply a veneer on installed treads yourself and get similar results? It sounds like you have installed the treads and risers already.
Veneers will wear like any wood, but the difference in factory treads is that they have applied the veneer with the right heat, humidity, and pressure necessary to get that perfect bond to the substrate. And then topped it off with a high-wear finish.
Also, the veneers used in good engineered treads tend to be much thicker than <1mm, and could be refinished if you were careful. However, there is an upper limit to the thickness of veneer a home-gamer can apply with the usual tools available to them.
Engineered products also use a very hard and stable substrate, not plain old softwood.
You'd have a heck of a time getting good results (look good, no seams or bubbles, good adherence to the substrate) with the treads and risers already installed.
That being said, you could probably get away with it if the stairs weren't installed yet, and you were able to come up with a clamping or weighting solution to turn some cheap substrate lumber into veneered panels ready for turning into treads and risers.
(As pointed out by others, how you would trim, protect, and hide the veneer edges is left as an exercise for the reader; it would not be easy, and would add significantly to the workload. Again, this is something that factories with the right tooling can do in a minute that would take a carpenter literally days and not get the same results.)
You'd have to sweat these details, though, because an edge of lifting veneer or loose trim is the perfect way to trip people on stairs, and stairs are already a top killer in the home. Things are better than the terrible "servant" stairs the Victorians had in their houses (and much copied here in the colonies) but stairs are surprisingly tricky to not accidentally make into killing machines.
And, yes. It'll wear through eventually and then the whole tread will probably need to be replaced. Remember that part of DIY carpentry is not giving yourself too much repair and maintenance work. Your future self is busy enough as it is.
That all being said, you've given yourself a future of maintenance by using pine for the hard-wearing parts of stairs. They will wear fast, regardless of the finish you choose. So you will be refinishing them regularly, and they will never outlast their engineered counterparts. If I could go back in time and give you some advice, it would be to spend the money on hardwood for the treads, and use the pine for other parts that aren't directly stepped on.

