Q:

Using softwoods for bench tops

As most of the regulars know I work with a lot of whitewoods. Pines mostly that come from pallets and what not.
I recently made a workbench from an old door but it was hollow inside so I plan on moving it to a lower level and replacing the top with something more solid. Given my availability of 2x4's it would be really easy for me to laminate those and plane the top to make a nice bench top. 
There are enough people on the "pine /softwoods are terrible for this" bandwagon but I found a blog post from Paul Sellers that comes to their defence for me.

I have made benches in the US from every species of softwood with not issues of serviceability.

So a good question for here would be are softwoods suitable or practicable for use as bench tops? 

A:

So a good question for here would be are softwoods suitable or practicable for use as bench tops? 

Yes. Obviously softwoods are generally fairly soft and a bench made from softwood is going to be more prone to denting than one made of e.g. hard maple (a very popular choice in the US) but this could actually be considered a desirable trait rather than a failing. When woodworking on any very hard table care must be exercised not to accidentally mar the workpiece, especially when doing any work in softwoods or MDF. While with a softwood bench it is the bench that is likely to take the brunt of the damage if the workpiece is dropped on it or bumped against an edge, you could argue this is actually what you want. 
That issue aside, the view is expressed that a softwood benchtop lacks the necessary toughness or resilience to take heavy use, particularly over a long service life. While it's not an exact parallel some indication that this view is too limited is given by farmhouse tables from Britain, Ireland and the Continent. These were very commonly built from pine and the fact that they often endured immensely long service lives (a century or greater) shows that softwoods can withstand sustained use over many years.
And just to show that this isn't merely an intellectual exercise, some vintage and antique softwood benches to prove the point conclusively:

A:

I don't see why not.  Some of it depends on what kind of abuse you expect it to take and if you expect it to stay 'pretty'.  One of my bench tops I made out of 2x6's left over from building the garage.  I ran them through the joiner and planner to square them up and it is a very solid bench that can take a lot of abuse.  It also happens to be significantly cheaper than using hardwoods to do a similar thing.
I know I poke fun at the 'cheap' woods often, but I know they really can be useful for more than just building walls.  I know most of us woodworkers would love a solid hardwood topped bench but the hardwood is much more of a 'want' than a 'need'.

