Q:

My new 13" planer

I had some questions about my new planer I got as a gift. 
1) Sharpening the blade How many times could I sharpen the blade before it becomes inaccurate. I was thinking once, maybe twice. But I a sure that somebody has done it and has a good idea on that. 
2) The belt I already ran into a problem. The company does not seem to directly sell the belts for the planer. So what size is typical or what kind of belt do they use?
3) Greasing the gears This was recommended in the book. But how often do I need to do this. And better yet, I do not know what kind of grease to use with this kind of stuff.
4) Grain direction I know you want to go with the grain. But what if I where to say make a board that had to be feed cross grain. Any way to make it safer? I was thinking just make shallow cuts. Which I already do at 1/32 of a inch at a time.
Well to be honest I really do not have any other question as of now. But anything that you have to recommend to me with this new planer, since it is my first one. Thanks!

A:

Sharpening the Blade  I have a similar table top planer (Delta).  The blades are reversible so I use them for a year or until I otherwise notice significant degradation in the surface smoothness.  Flipping the blades takes less than a half hour.  I have been reluctant to sharpen them and find $30 in new blades every couple years is reasonable in my case so I can't offer more insight into this. 
The Belt.  There is no standard size for the belt, it will vary per manufacturer and model.  Your manual should include an exploded parts view that should identify the belt. (or go online).
Greasing the gears.  I assume you are referring to the leveling gears.  There is no maintenance schedule I am aware of.  Inspect them now and then check annually to verify they are still working well and have sufficient lubricant.
Grain Direction.  There is no real safety issue with grain direction.  Rather, if the board runs through backwards or sideways there is increased risk  that the cutting edge will raise grain that travels deeper into the board, causing "tear-out" in which chips of wood are lifted off of the surface leaving gouges.  If you run the board through in a cross grain direction the blade is more likely to pull out longer wood fibers causing similar surface imperfections.  Running the board with the grain is best, but if you can't, you can reduce the risk of tear-out by making very shallow passes removing very little material in each run.

