Q:

Is it okay to use pocket screws to join sides to front/back rather than the opposite?

I am looking to make a "side access" pull-out 'drawer' to replace very high cabinet shelves (two shelves so high they are currently nigh-unusable). It's full depth (22.5"), only 15" wide, and the drawer is going to fill a 14" height gap to hold tall things like upright cereal boxes, spaghetti holders, etc.
I've measured that I can just comfortably reach into the bottom of the 'drawer' when it's pulled out to nab said boxes. It has a high side that will be against the open cabinet door to prevent the tall things from falling out that side, and a high "back" to prevent things from tipping off when it is pulled out.
I'm thinking pocket screws are the way to go. I'm a competent beginner but only have a rudimentary set of tools/budget. It's a variant of a simple drawer box, but most drawer boxes I see have the front/back joined to the sides (which the drawer slides are attached to). However for my design it would work better (and prettier) for the box construction to go the other way around - the pocket holes in the sides. Will that interfere with the drawer slides somehow?
This is the current idea - the curved part on the left in this picture is actually the front that will have a handle to pull on.  The low side is just tall enough to accommodate a full extension slide, I just wasn't sure if the pocket screws (on the inside) would somehow weaken that side?

A:

I see the ovals on the bottom - I presume these represent the holes from the pocket screw jig to allow it to attach to the back. I presume that there will be similar holes in the bottom going into the short side closest to us, and the tall side further away?
So long as the pocket-screw locations don't interfere with the drawer slide mounting screw locations, you shouldn't have any issues. I'd suggest that you'll want to leave at least 1" of solid wood between screw locations as the default spacing for the jig I've got has the holes about that far apart (from memory).

