Q:

How can I create a wooden torus/doughnut?

I was thinking about make a replica Wii wheel for my kids out of wood. That would be about 6" in diameter. It seems a tall order to me as I do not know how to make a concoction like that with any amount of accuracy. Let alone how to get the wood together to even start something like that.
Wooden ring http://www.jewelleryshed.co.uk/ekmps/shops/jewelleryshed/images/5-x-brown-41mm-undrilled-donut-burly-wood-beads-cj019--3811-p.jpg
Aiming to have something similar to the picture but ease of creating will be taken over precision. All I can picture is a combination of lamination and a router using a template but I don't know for sure. 
How can I make a wooden wheel, doughnut or torus(I was trying to find a proper term to sound smart!). 

A:

I've done something similar, at about a 3" diameter. Since I had to produce a fair number of them I made two jigs for the task:

one to guide a router and pattern bit around the inner surface (after i'd drilled away most of the waste) and hold the block steady while I switched to a roundover bit to finish the inside profile (flipping the workpiece to round over both sides)
another with a raised boss that the resulting hole fit over (after I'd sawed away most of the outside waste) to guide the pattern bit around the outside edge and to hold the resulting ring while I used the roundover bit again to finish the outside of the ring, from both sides.

In my case the shape was an oval. For a circle, the second jig may require a wedge or other clamp -- or a temporary hot-glue joint, or a high friction rubber surface -- to keep the ring from spinning while you work on it.
A bit of sanding to fair the curves and prep the surface, , finish, and you're done.
I'm sure there are many other solutions; this just happened to be the one that suited my needs and my available tools.

A:

Surprise, surprise, my recommendation is of course the lathe.  Lathes are designed to make stuff round.  if you have the right chucking equipment (and some of it you can make on the lathe!) you can make on pretty easily.
There are several ways to do it but each will involve a couple stages, turn the outside, turn the center, reverse it and clean up the whole thing.  
Of course if you don't have a lathe or a little experience with one, it becomes much more expensive and difficult, but making round things in general is best done on a lathe.
There are many ways to do it, but this is how I've tried it.
Took a round piece and mounted it between the drive center and the tail stock.  shaped the outside of the torus (in my case it was a bracelet) and then started cutting toward the inside.  when you start getting close to cutting through, you can sand and even wax the parts that are done.  then finish parting the ring from the center.  This is similar to captive rings on goblet stems are made, but a bit easier (can always look for youtube videos on that).  If you have a flat jaws chuck you can remount the piece and sand the inside ring, if not you can finish it by hand.

A:

I'd probably start with a cylinder and round over the edges. From there you can trace a template for the interior and use a jigsaw to cut it. Then you can found over the inside corners and tidy it up with files/rasps.
Constantly checking the fit and feel might help mitigate the lack of precision.

