Q:

Making very small mortises/grooves in wood

I'm wondering if there is a best way to make such holes in wood, size 2mm x 10mm. Should I use small chisels or any other approach you recommend?

A:

Should I use small chisels or any other approach you recommend?

I think cutting by laser is arguably the way to do these, assuming the cost were not an issue. The results in all cases are going to be essentially perfect, requiring no time-consuming tricky and tedious small-scale work with hand tools.
Assuming no laser however, should you use small chisels? Yes, partly; I think there's actually no choice but to cut these by hand, using a chisel among other tools — defining the long edges by cutting carefully with a knife seems prudent.
I was under the impression that no 2mm woodworking chisels were made, but the OP found them made by Kirschen (AKA Two Cherries), their 1001002 Firmer Chisel. These are quoted as having very good hardness, Rc61, are fitted with hornbeam handles with steel ferrules, and reinforced at the butt end with a steel ring.
Care should be exercised with chisels this narrow not to stress them sideways too much, or at all; especially at high hardnesses narrow chisels are prone to snapping.
It should go without saying but careful layout/marking will be absolutely key to accuracy here if working by hand.
Method, a 'cheat'
If I were doing some of these — and regardless of whether I was using hand tools or had them done by laser — I'd be very inclined to do a sort of cheat and split the wooden block by resawing, to leave a thick base piece and a thinner 'skin' that I'd work on separately.

Resaw the blocks perhaps 80/20 or 90/10 (chosen based on desired mortise depth).
Smooth the mating surfaces to that they will glue back together perfectly; this can be done by hand planing or by sanding.
Cut grooves into the thinner piece, chiselling or lasering right through (instead of the 'slightly' more tricky operation of cutting mortises).
Glue the block pieces back together, applying just enough glue to both surfaces to ensure a good bond while minimising cleanup.
Fill the recesses as you prefer, then make flush and clean up the top face.
Clean up all edges.
Apply finish of choice, done.

In either case you'd start with blocks slightly thicker than the final dimensions. 1mm or so should be enough. This is to allow for flushing at the end of course but also cleanup of any extraneous marks from laying out, or scorching from the laser.

