Q:

How do I temporarily attach two pieces of wood together for machining?

How do I temporarily attach two pieces of wood together, face to face, in a way that's strong enough that I can, say, run it through a saw, but that doesn't leave marks on the wood or get in the way of the tool?
For example, let's say I have a piece of wood with jagged edges and I want to temporarily stick it on another piece of wood with a straight edge so I can guide it along a table saw or router fence.

Clamps get in the way of the table, and are sometimes hard to position accurately.
Wood glue is permanent.
Screws and nails leave holes.
Two sided tape is thick and squishy (has some play, no good esp. on a router), leaves residue.

How can I do this? I have this struggle a lot.

A:

As sketchy as it sounds masking tape and superglue (cyano or CA) can work very well for this type of thing. Many people have relied on types of double-sided tape, carpet tape being particularly favoured for its strong hold, for this sort of job for many years, but the hold can tend to creep with continual strain especially during warmer weather. And as you also mention it can leave a bothersome residue on the wood. Masking tape and superglue almost completely resolve both issues.
What you do is put tape on both pieces and simply superglue the tape together. Shown better than I can describe it in words in this YouTube video from Crimson Custom Guitars.
Masking tape is of course purpose-made not to leave residue and the thinner glue layer means it's less subject to creep. And the hold of the superglue is very strong and rigid, but despite this you can pop the two pieces apart with minimal prying. The masking tape then peels from the wood with ease.

Wood glue is permanent.

Something to help with this is to glue a piece of paper in between the two pieces of wood. This is often done with corner blocks to allow conventional clamping of mitres for example. I'm not actually a big fan of this method overall (works best if using hide glue for one thing) but I thought I'd mention the tip.

A:

As much as I hate a non-DIY solution for this, a great option is toggle clamps:

Although these are more suitable for more permanent jigs, they provide good clamping with minimal interference with the tools you are using to shape the wood.

A:

23 gauge pin nailer! I know it sounds bad and wrong, but it actually works. 
Next best is hot melt glue, which doesn't squirm like tape and is readily removable.
For your example of a waney edge through a tablesaw, there are sled designs that use toggle clamps.  

