Q:

Where should the trademark be placed on a baseball bat?

As a kid during the days of Little League (my last close contact with baseball), we always admonished one another not to hit the ball on the trademark of the bat.  You'll break it!  
Well, occasionally one of us would manage to break a bat, but we never knew whether the trademark was involved.
Where should the trademark be placed to lessen chances of breaking or does burning a trademark into the barrel weaken the bat? 

A:

Is there any truth to breaking a bat by hitting on the trademark

Yes there is. Traditionally the logo or label is located in a specific orientation to the grain in the wood, leading to the guideline that the logo should face the sky or the ground ("logo up or logo down") meaning you would be hitting the ball at 90° to the position of the logo.
As one manufacturer puts it: 
There is a proper side to hit on, so be sure to also see the answer to the next question.
...[by orienting the label up or down] you'll be making contact with the area on the "side" of the bat where the grains are layered---the strongest "side" of the bat. 
Unfortunately, and as usual, it's not quite as simple as that because more than one species is used to make baseball bats and they have quite different structures. Also there is more than one type of breakage/failure (in the handle area or the barrel). More info here on WoodBats.Org.

does burning a trademark into the barrel weaken the bat? 

If it's placed in the traditional location, I doubt it. It's at a right angle to the primary forces the bat is (should be) subjected to, so it should normally have no effect. 
A burned-in logo would normally only involve the surface anyway. It is possible that if you burn very deeply it might compromise the wood if the logo is placed atypically, but I think that you'd have to have both conditions met for it to affect a bat's strength — so both burned far too deep and in the wrong orientation to the grain.

A:

I've just done a bit of research (OK... I did a google image search, but the results seem to be consistent) and it seems like the logo is always burned into / painted onto the same part of the bat, in relation to the grain direction:

Notice that the logo is in the same orientation as the growth ring lines of the bat. This makes a lot of sense in the context of the advice "don't hit the ball with the logo side" since the wood will separate more readily between the growth rings than it will at 90° to this.
Essentially what you're trying to avoid is this, which is separation along the growth rings:

So, I suspect it's not the act of burning / painting the logo onto the bat that weakens it, rather that the position of the logo is chosen based on the grain direction, which is what determines the directional strength of the bat. The way I've seen it explained is like the difference between hitting a ball with the edge of a deck of cards or the face.
The broken bat image is from here which is a site which seems to have some good info on wooden bats.
The link above actually has some good info about different wood types etc. and  growth ring density affect a bat's performance. Generally though the rule about placing the logo on the flat of the grain, and avoiding hitting the ball with the logo stands.

A:

That is correct, the trademark side of the bat should not be used to hit the ball. The trademark is stamped on the weakest part of the bat - notice it's always in the same position with relation to the grain of the wood. Hitting the ball with this area has a higher chance of breaking the bat, since it's the weakest point on the bat. That's not to say that any hit on the trademark will instantly shatter your bat, or that hitting off the trademark makes a bat indestructible, but the chances are higher. When going to bat, you should be looking at the trademark when you hold the bat up in front of you, so that the ball hits about 90 degrees from the trademark.
I learned this directly from the manufacturer, at the Louisville Slugger factory in Louisville, KY.

