Q:

Are there any alternatives to a SawStop?

SawStop sells table saws with a safety feature which causes the blade to descend and stop if it makes contact with someone's skin.
Are there other options, similar to a SawStop system, available on the market today? Specifically, I'm looking for a product that:

allows me to operate my table saw without any guards over the blade*
prevents the blade from cutting through my flesh
is not affiliated with SawStop

* not a recommendation

A:

No, SawStop is the only table saw currently available for purchase (as of Apr 2015) which features a flesh-triggered active safety device.
However, on March 16, 2015, Bosch announced a jobsite table saw featuring an active safety system they call REAXX. Although the saw is not yet available for purchase, the press release notes, "The Bosch REAXX Jobsite Table Saw will be available fall 2015."
Also, in 2010, Whirlwind Tool demonstrated a flesh-triggered blade brake which stops the blade in 1/8 second but this system is also not available on the market as of April 2015. Although they have not brought a product to market as of April 2015, a press release states that Whirlwind Tool is looking for someone to buy or license their technology. According to the press release, the company was apparently tied up in litigation from 2012 until possibly early 2015 (the press release is not clear on the end date). This is the only active safety device for a table saw that can be retrofitted onto an existing table saw, and the company has named the device Black Box.
How each system works
SawStop's namesake safety system uses a one-time-use spring-loaded cartridge to push a perforated piece of aluminum into the blade and causes the blade's transferred rotational inertia to pull the blade below the table. The blade brake stops the blade in less than 5 milliseconds, but it can damage the blade and must be replaced after each activation.
Bosch's REAXX system uses a two-sided cartridge (reportedly based on Bosch's airbag deployment technology) to push the blade below the table while the blade spins down naturally. Bosch's system does not damage the blade and the cartridge can be flipped around and used a second time before it must be replaced.
The Whirlwind Tool Black Box differs from the other two systems in that it does not sense flesh contact directly through the blade. Instead, it detects the proximity of flesh to a blade guard. When the blade guard detects flesh within a certain distance, it triggers a non-destructive blade brake which stops the blade in 1/8 second (which may be fast enough to prevent an injury since the brake is supposed to activate before flesh contact with the blade).

A:

Yes, a new product with skin-sensing technology was just recently announced by Bosch.
"The key to Bosch’s safe saw is a device that uses similar technology that Bosch’s auto-parts division uses to deploy air bags in automobiles. ... With this saw, when the blade senses a finger (or any flesh), the device fires a cartridge that immediately and oh-so-speedily drops the blade completely below the table surface, leaving the user with only a slight scrape or skin nick. Unlike SawStop—which ruins both blade and brake cartridge—the Bosch flesh-detecting Active Response Technology kills the power and lets the blade coast to a stop safely within the cabinet, preserving it for future use."
(My emphasis: a significant improvement over the SawStop break.)
Read more about it here on Wood Magazine's site: Bosch develops tablesaw with blade-brake safety.

