Q:

Can I oil wood if the pores are full of epoxy?

I turned a mesquite bowl to near final dimensions on my lathe, then filled some defects with epoxy. The defects were in end grain areas. After turning it flush and removing enough wood that there are no visible epoxy stains outside of the inlays, it looks like there may be areas of end grain where the wood pores have been filled with epoxy (only visible when looking very close). Will the wood still absorb polymerized linseed oil evenly, or should I use another finish, like shellac? I used tape dams, so most of the bowl was spared from being unnecessarily coated in epoxy, but not all.

A:

Will the wood still absorb polymerized linseed oil evenly

This is very firmly a maybe.
Sometimes visible filled grain/pores do indicate that if you oil (or use a finish that acts similarly to 'wet' the wood) you will get a very noticeable pale area, which is obviously what you want to avoid.
The good news is you don't need to try it and see with oil, you can use anything that will wet the wood as it will give you a preview of the effect. This of course includes water, but you'll probably want to use something that won't raise the grain so instead denatured alcohol (UK: meths), mineral spirits (UK: white spirit) or acetone/lacquer thinner are the usual alternatives, in very approximate order of frequency of use1.
If you see the dreaded pale area then just wait for the solvent to evaporate and go with shellac if that's your preferred alternative finish to polymerised linseed. FWIW the final effect may not be that different2.

1 Although not in order of preference. Unless you're planning on using a water-bourne final finish I don't believe there really is any practical reason to prefer one over another except in drying time; and unless you're terminally impatient :-) this is really only a factor on large areas that you want to assess all at once.
2 Nerdy finishing geek-out: while oil will frequently give the absolute maximum 'pop' to grain, maximising contrast and chatoyance, shellac is no slouch in this department. And with some wood oiling before applying film finishes like shellac, varnish or nitro lacquer doesn't do much, certainly not enough to warrant the extra step and its associated 'drying' time.

