Q:

How to use Sagulator for Sofa / Bed?

I'm a woodworking novice with the goal of putting together a simple convertible sofa / bed. My goals are to keep it simple and affordable to build. I'm planning to buy a couple sheets of plywood and have the lumber yard cut them and then hopefully put it together with just a drill. I made a design in SketchUp and am trying to use the Sagulator to understand what thickness/type of wood I need to use to make sure it has acceptable sag.
I am mostly looking for a gut check on whether I am using the Sagulator correctly, particularly the load inputs.
The sofa and bed will be used by two people 180 lbs and 120 lbs.
For sofa mode (2" thick) I used the following values and got acceptable sag:
180 lbs / foot center load - i assume a person sitting is maybe 1.5-2 feet wide, so 180lbs per foot should be plenty?
350 lbs / foot uniform load - seems more than enough?
For bed mode (1" thick) I used:
100 lbs / foot uniform load - again guessing based on how a person weight is distributed when laying down
Questions:

Am I estimating the load correctly? Is there a rule-of-thumb lbs/ft to use for a sofa / bed, e.g. I guess when a furniture designer designs a piece for sale, there must be some typical standard load rating? I searched for this but couldn't find anything.

The design is very simple, two boxes each missing 2 faces. Stack them for sofa, set them side by side for bed. This means the thickness of the span in bed mode is 1" and in sofa mode it is 2" (2x 1"). I therefore assumed I can input 2" in the Sagulator, but not sure if that is the case?

I am still researching how to attach the "legs" to the "shelf". I was thinking to use pocket holes and some bolts of some kind. I'm most curious about the sag, but would also appreciate any advice on this.

Thanks in advance!
Picture of the "design":

Sagulator "sofa mode" - person sitting in center:

Sagulator "sofa mode" - people sitting distributed evenly:

Sagulator "bed mode":

Dimensions:
83x32x10 inches is the bounding volume for each box.

A:

The weak point is the front, in the middle of the sofa (and correspondingly, the middle of the bed on the seam). You could fix the sofa with lumber on edge underneath the ply, but that doesn’t fix the other half of the bed.
You could put hinges on the assembly, which would let the weak point share the support of the lumber on edge, or you could make the lumber stick out half its width so that the weak half rests on it. (Neither of these seem like good solutions to me.)
Alternately, you could build torsion boxes out of something like 1/2” ply and 2x2s. You’d need to either find a resource that acts like the sagulator to test deflection, or just build one half as an experiment. My intuition is that it would be plenty stiff, but I have no data to back that up.
Edit:
Knowing that you want a fairly modern look, I’d try this torsion box.

Use a stiff hardwood (ash would be good; poplar not so much) for the front and interior supports. Glue and screw.
Have a backup plan to add the optional support to the front of the sofa if needed.
And per the excellent idea of Graphus, stick a block underneath the other side to support bed mode without sagging or additional buildup.

