Q:

Joining partially-overlapping boards into panel

A few times, I have seen partially-overlapping horizontal boards, creating a larger panel. For example, I've seen this done on the walls of some wooden houses. I would like to know if there is a joint between these boards, or they are just nailed / glued together. I didn't get the impression a tongue and groove were involved.
Alas, I've been unable to find a picture online. Anyone can answer this?

A:

It sounds to me like you are describing bevel or clapboard siding. For a long time it was the "go to" siding for wooden houses in the US. Bevel siding was usually made of clear red cedar and came in various widths from as narrow as 4" with about 3" exposed, to 8" or 10" with 7" or 9"exposed.
However, it could be one of the others depicted in this diagram from
How to Buy Wood Board Siding
by Don Vandervort, HomeTips © 1997-2015

(by the way when you pronounce clapboard the p is normally silent.)

A:

A few times, I have seen partially-overlapping horizontal boards, creating a larger panel. For example, I've seen this done on the walls of some wooden houses. I would like to know if there is a joint between these boards, or they are just nailed / glued together. I didn't get the impression a tongue and groove were involved.

Without having a picture to go on, I'm going to take a guess as to what kind of joint you're describing.

Shiplap Joint

source
This type of joint has two boards with matching rabbets on opposing faces and was commonly used in (you guessed it) ship hulls.  In ship construction, these were normally pegged with trunnels.  In furniture, they may or may not be glued, depending on how the ends are fixed to the piece.
Often times the "show" side of the joint will have a decorative bead, which helps to hide the joint.  I couldn't find a suitable picture of this, but the one below (shaped in a solid piece, so not actually a shiplap) shows the effect.

source

Splined Joint

source
These joints use a long spline to reinforce the butt joint and keep the boards aligned.  Usually these are glued in place, so it may not be what you're seeing.  Also, I doubt a house framer would go to the trouble of splining all the boards for a wall, but you never know.

