Q:

Shelf movement in a plywood bookcase

I'm building some 7' by 3' bookcases with mix of plywood and solid oak for the sides and back (mostly plywood), but full solid oak shelving for strength. I'm worried that the ~9" depth to the shelves will allow up to about 1/8" of movement. If I used the online formula correctly. Since the sides and shelves are constructed so differently, and will thus move differently, I'm assuming I can't just secure the fixed shelves to the sides and back.
My primary question is: am I right about the movement, and if so, is it sufficient to place the fixed shelves in a dado and only glue the front couple inches? (I want the front of the fixed shelves to look solidly attached throughout the year.) Secondarily, can I "hide" the movement at the back, for instance by running a 1/4" dado and only insert the first 1/8" inch during construction (it's winter, so it's probably near my low humidity point)? I didn't plan quite far enough ahead to select my boards for grain direction, so I'm assuming the worst.
Here's a rough look at my design, for reference; green is plywood, and the rest is solid. The topmost and bottom visible shelf, as well as one not visible near the very bottom are the fixed shelves I'm asking about attaching. (The rest of the shelves will be adjustable, so I just need to allow room for their largest size, and accept some gap.)

A:

My primary question is: am I right about the movement, and if so, is it sufficient to place the fixed shelves in a dado and only glue the front couple inches? 

Yes and yes. You could also fix the shelves at the front by toenailing them in from beneath or using pocket screws (could also be used in addition to glue, although there's no benefit to doing both).

Secondarily, can I "hide" the movement at the back, for instance by running a 1/4" dado and only insert the first 1/8" inch during construction (it's winter, so it's probably near my low humidity point)? I didn't plan quite far enough ahead to select my boards for grain direction, so I'm assuming the worst.

Yes this is a good solution, much like the allowances allowed for in some things made from tongue-and-groove. Be generous in your spacing

But, you made an error at the outset in assuming that the solid-wood shelves would be stronger than plywood. Broadly speaking quality plywood will be comparable to most solid woods, of course without any attendant worries about seasonal movement.
If you hadn't already bought your materials plywood would presumably be significantly cheaper as well, so normally this would all be upside. The oak can be put aside for use in a future project of course.
One other reason for going with plywood in your case is I'm not sure there is sufficient allowance for movement. Doing a few quick sums with some guesses on my part I'm getting figures between roughly 1/5" and as high as 1/4". And if your seasonal humidity swings are wider than my assumption the internal moisture change in the wood will be greater than the 8% I've allowed for, obviously meaning that movement could be slightly more than this.

