Q:

Preserving a Dead Branch AS IS for a Staff

I found a dead branch in the woods that I want to preserve and turn into a wizard staff for a cosplay/Halloween costume. The branch was very dead when I found it, so I think it's pretty dry, and I want to keep it looking basically the same as it was when I found it. It has a lot of lichen and some moss, as well as a few large (1/4") splits in the wood. It seems sturdy despite the splits as I gave it quite the beating on the way home.
What is the best way to keep the bark and lichen preserved on the staff? The moss can be optional as I'm guessing it would lose its color in time.
Side Note: This is my first real wood-related project so I don't have any real experience with this sort of thing.

A:

The branch was very dead when I found it, so I think it's pretty dry,

There are various levels of 'dry' for wood. Sitting exposed outdoors, especially if lying on the ground, the wood won't be quite as dry as you'd imagine (especially in its interior). When you pick up any wood from outdoors it should be expected that in the relatively dry and stable conditions indoors it will dry further. With a branch this drying will take a bit longer than with a plank of similar thickness because the bark acts as a partial moisture barrier.
As the branch dries more any existing cracks may widen and/or lengthen slightly and some new ones may form. You'll just have to roll with this as there's basically nothing you can do to prevent it with a whole branch.
As for the bark, if you're lucky the species of tree that the branch belongs to has bark that stays strongly attached over time and becoming drier won't affect it much. If you're unlucky it'll begin to flake or peel off. You'll just have to see how it goes over time.
The lichen is probably very brittle as it is and I don't think there's anything you can do to improve on this, handling will as a result flake some of it off. The moss will dry out over time and slowly lose its colour (good news is it may take many months) and as it gets drier I imagine its hold on the bark will diminish.
So probably your best course of action is try to handle the mossy and lichen-encrusted areas as little as possible. 

