Q:

FIlling up gaps in an old wooden floor

I'm currently in the process of renewing an old wooden floor. What would one use to fill in the gaps between the planks?

I've asked in the local home repair store and they gave me a silicone like mass that resembles the color of the wood.
That seems to work ok for the nail holes, but is kind of soft and somewhat expensive for filling out all space between the boards.
I have seen some youtube videos in which people are mixing sand dust with either wood glue or some special liquid. Does anyone know something on the pros and conns of these approaches?

A:

I'm currently in the process of renewing an old wooden floor. What would one use to fill in the gaps between the planks?

Nothing unless there's a draft problem. The gaps aren't generally an issue except visually but they can make for a cold floor depending on the rest of the structure of the house and how much air movement can take place through the floor.
Some argue such gaps are supposed to be there, and if you look at old floors 99 times out of 100 you'll see gaps between boards, sometimes quite wide ones, and in many cases there's no filler and no trace that there ever was any present.
In the past where gaps were filled they used various methods, including the same way gaps were dealt with on ship decks, using oakum and tar (!), as well as with melted wax or wax/resin compositions (also used as a filler material for furniture in this era).
See more discussion on the issue and solutions at these links:
How to Fill Gaps In a Wide-Plank Wood Floor on This Old House.
My home's pine flooring has large gaps in between some of the planks, especially in the kitchen. What can be done to fill or seal them? on Quora.
How to fill gaps in a wood floor? on HomeOwnersHub.
Filler for ancient wood floors? on the WoodenBoat forum.

I've asked in the local home repair store and they gave me a silicone like mass that resembles the color of the wood.
That seems to work ok for the nail holes

That stuff is no good for filling nail holes on a floor. This type of flexible filler is for filling gaps that require some movement to take place without cracking, as in gappy installations of skirting to walls, one wooden moulding piece to the next where some shrinkage and expansion will take place through the year.
If you must fill the nail holes (you don't have to, it's quite normal for them not to be filled) you want a rigid filler and ideally a strong one if it's to take direct foot traffic, i.e. if there's no carpet going on or any rugs being put down.

A:

The old school way I have seen to fill large gaps in wide plank flooring is with rope:

1 Scrape debris from between flooring planks with putty knife or painter's tool.
2 Vacuum floor clean of all dust and debris.
3 If desired, tint rope with wood stain to match floor; let dry.
4 Force rope into gap between planks with putty knife or painter's
  tool.

This minimizes what can get caught in the gap, stops drafts, while allowing for wood expansion and contraction.
This Old House

