Q:

Extendable outdoor coffee/dining table. Will it be strong enough?

I want to build an outdoor coffee table that can easily convert to a dining table. This table will be under cover and I plan to build it from C24 treated pine. I am a relatively new woodworker and I have made a plan on Sketchup, roughly using this design as inspiration (https://www.familyhandyman.com/project/diy-desk-adjustable/), but using 2x6s instead of 2x4s as the legs.
I plan to use four removable 25 mm dowel pins to secure the table in the coffee or dining table positions. There is 16 cm insertion of the legs when in dining table mode. Finally, I am going to use two 200N 550mm gas springs (https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B0B7SJJKP8/ref=ox_sc_act_image_3?smid=AG2W5Z7O03ZBI&th=1) inside the table legs to help raise and lower the table. I calculated that the table top and legs should weigh about 42kg, so these springs should be strong enough. I will attach them top and bottom with 150mm carriage bolts.
The table will be 51 cm in coffee mode (a little high, I know) and 76 cm in dining mode. The tabletop is 75 X 150cm. The tabletop will be five 150cm pieces of 2x6. There will be 5mm gaps between them and they will be attached to the cross braces by 70mm decking screws inserted from underneath. These will not be glued.
The table will be made primarily of 2x6s, with the feet made from screwed and glued 2x2s (with a gap to allow legs to insert into base in coffee mode, and the leg boxes will be 10x6s and 2x2s. I will mostly use 70mm decking screws with pocket holes and glue.
Note from the image the brace is split in the middle, but this is just so I could show the two modes. It will be a solid 2x6 brace.
Do you think this is going to wobble too much, and any recommendations for making this stronger? Thanks!

A:

I finally got around to building this over the weekend. Turned out just as I had planned. Took forever to get the holes for the dowels right but I'm glad I took my time. The key was to set one dowel while I drilled the other so the positioning was perfect.
There is only a slight wobble in raised mode, but it's not enough to be a problem and honestly it's barely noticeable. Looking forward to spending a lot more time in the back garden now.

