Q:

How to finish untreated European Oak wooden floors

I have bought a Oak Wooden floor planks unfinished. I have filled all the knots with clear resin and sanded it back for a lovely finish. I now need to protect the planks from drying out and cracking, from wet feet, UV, dirt and stains. All the general wear and tear a floor takes. What ever I finish it with, has to work with the resin. As there will be traces around the knots. I don't want to the finish to change the colour of the wood. As I love it as it is. I am considering Tung oil and white spirit? or a wax maybe. I don't mind the floor taking on dents and scratches, as its a 200 year old house. I think keeping the floor looking new like new would make it look to modern for the property, and a worn patina would complete the house and be more practical. I also want it to be easy to maintain and not have to sand it back in 5 years to reapply. Any advice would be really welcomed.

A:

As Graphus pointed out in the comments to your question.  Many of your requirements are mutually exclusive.
Any oil finish only give some protection from moisture, at least as far as flooring goes, and they definitely all make the wood darker (change color) some times by quite a bit, depending on the oil and the number of coats, oil will need to be reapplied more frequently than many other finishes.
Anything short of an epoxy floor finish will likely need to be redone every 10-15 years with moderate to heavy use. An oil finish might be 2-3 years.  Primary entry doorway vs the unused guest bedroom makes a huge difference in wear.  White oak can take a pretty good beating all by itself for physical abuse, but without protection it will tend to stain and discolor, which would require more sanding to fix.
My dad put a clear epoxy floor finish on his hardwood floor, it had 5 different hardwoods in it and they all have beautiful color and the floor is very scratch/wear resistant.  Dog nails don't leave a mark.  It should be a couple decades before it needs any work baring any extreme misuse.  Now because it's an epoxy, (2-part to mix, then apply) it takes a little more work and forethought, but once it's done shouldn't have to worry about it for a long time.

