Q:

Are round corners costly?

Let's suppose that I want to manufacture and sell bed frames. Instead of a plain square, I want all 4 corners to be rounded, simply for aesthetic purposes.
Would this increase the cost to manufacture this item significantly?

A:

Whether the added cost is "significant" depends a lot on how much the balance of the design costs. More directly, however, the rounded corner will probably add a couple of hours of labor plus material costs. Unlike the previous two posts, I don't see that you will be able to cut these from solid stock, at least for a radius similar to that shown in the photo. It will be very difficult to source stock that thick and will have very limited choices of species. A bent lamination is possible, but a radius like that shown will require thin plies, certainly ⅛" or less, which will be time consuming to produce and form. You might be able to bend a core from bending ply or kerfed plywood, then veneer.
My approach would be to make a staved quarter cylinder perhaps with extensions at the tangents. By selecting the number of segments you can control the deviation from a true cylinder, and hence how much finishing is need to get a smooth curve. If you keep your staves in order and use a thin kerf blade for the bevel cuts you can preserve the grain pattern. And you don't end up wasting huge amounts of wood. You can also use the same stock you use for the balance of the frame, which maintains a consistent look.

A:

Your cost is going to be roughly the cost of the wood (raw material) that is removed, combined with the time (labor cost) it takes to remove it.
The greater of the two would be the time (labor cost) in shaping the corner. Cutting the curve on all four legs at once and so forth will keep the cost to a minimum. However both of these costs are very highly dependent upon the wood you're using and the efficiency of the methods and skill of the person used to make the curve.
My guess is, using somewhat optimized methods, the general cost would not be significantly affected in a commercial production environment fully stocked with tools and experienced workers. Doing this in a small shop with limited tools could be a bit harder and require more labor for a "one-off" build.

A:

The bigger the sweep the more expensive it will be,
You have to cut out the corner sweep out of a larger block of wood. You might be able to nest some of the corners and save some wood that way. But then the cuts become a lot more complicated
The more straightforward solution is to not have the corners be solid wood and instead use something like bent lamination and a veneer to fake the corner being a solid bit of wood.

