Q:

5000rpm vs 5500rpm circular saw

I’m looking to purchase a circular saw and I’ve narrowed it down to two,
A Ryobi that is 1250w that spins at 5000 rpm and a Bosch saw that is 1400w that spins at 5500rpm,
The question I am asking is does the extra 500 rpm make that much of a difference for the extra cost? And does anybody have experience with these two brands of saw?

A:

Are you going to notice the difference between a saw running at 5000 rpm and one running at 5500rpm?  No, probably not.
Are you going to notice 1250 watts vs 1400 watts?  Again, probably not.
What you are going to notice is if the blade is sharp, if the fence is square to the blade, how accurate the bevel adjustment is, etc.  All of these types of things are likely to be better in a Bosch than in a Ryobi.

A:

My experience with Ryobi tools that they are not for the professional or frequent user. I have worked as a technician using Ryobi tools for several years and found the shaft bearings on the drills failed after a couple years, the parts that needed to be made of tough but not hardened steel tended to wear out faster than the guys with Bosch, DeWalt, or most of the higher end brands. I'd get the Bosch because it will wear longer and maintain it's accuracy far longer than the Ryobi. I have since changed all my Ryobi power tools for Ridgid.
Now, to directly answer the question. Aside from the quality and repeatability of cuts is when (and it will happen) you are making a careful set of cuts and you hit the unexpected sap laden knot in the wood. The Ryobi will be more likely to slow and want to get away from you than the stronger Bosch. It may seem strange but the more powerful machines are safer than the lesser ones because they are more likely to continue cutting without the blade wanting to twist or bind. Sudden changes in blade speed can cause a loss of control. Spend the money on quality equipment and you will be safer and have them far longer. Ultimately, this makes the expensive stuff cost less in the long run.

