Q:

Are there any differences between jigsaws, sabre saws, or scroll saws?

From what I was taught, a scroll saw is a table top saw, with a thin blade used for scrolling work.  Though I've also heard these tools referred to as jigsaws.

Manufacturers also offer portable saws, which are designed for making similar intricate cuts.  These tools seem to be know as either jigsaws, or sabre (saber) saws.  

To muddy the waters further, scrolling sabre saws are also available.

Are there any differences between sabre and jig saws, or are they all the same? Does the blade being used in the tool make a difference? 

A:

As discussed in some of the answers to What is the difference between a sabre saw and a jig saw, the terminology has been used differently over time. What we call a scroll saw today (a stationary/benchtop tool with the blade fixed at both ends) was commonly called a jigsaw many years ago.

(Source: craigslist)
Today's handheld jigsaw (with the blade fixed at only one end) was also commonly called a sabre saw, and some manufacturers still do use this name (more on this later).
Further adding to the confusion is the Rockwell BladeRunner, which is neither called a scroll saw nor a jigsaw. It looks like a scroll saw but uses jigsaw blades that are installed upside-down (compared to a handheld jigsaw).

(Source)
The term "scroll cut" or "scrolling cut" is used generally to refer to a curved cut. Curved cuts made on a scroll saw, jigsaw/sabre saw, or even a bandsaw can all be referred to as scroll cuts. Thinner blades (front to back) allow you to cut tighter curves, and some such jigsaw blades are advertised as scroll blades.
That said, the "scrolling" feature of the pictured scrolling sabre saw appears to be the knob that lets you rotate the blade. Old advertisements for sabre saws/jigsaws also picture this knob, but this feature seems to be somewhat less common on modern-day jigsaws.

(Source)
There is a somewhat dubious about.com article which claims handheld jigsaws with this blade-rotating feature were named sabre saws and those without the feature were called jigsaws. Although this seems plausible, the article does not cite any references and the author, who seems to be a hobbyist woodworker and self-proclaimed "woodworking expert," does not appear to have any credentials which would suggest he is any more a definitive authority on the subject than any other hobbyist.
As noted in some of the answers on the previously-linked question, some people also use the term "sabre saw" to refer to a reciprocating saw, but until someone digs up some literature in which a tool manufacturer labels or calls a reciprocating saw a sabre saw, I think the only reasonable conclusion is that it is incorrect to call a reciprocating saw a sabre saw.

(Source)

A:

rob does a good job of covering the overall use of the tools. I find these discussions interesting since it is possible to be right but have different answers. All of these types of saws function in the same way. Some are better at dealing with intricate work and some are designed for rough jobs. It does not help that the names of these tools could be interchangeable (reciprocating saw being the worst offender of vague tool name). 
Scroll Saw
I have always understood the first tool you show as a scroll saw. It is known to have a blade fixed on both ends and is, typically, used for intricate work. The unit is fixed (not hand held or particularity mobile) and you move your work piece around the table. Similar to a band-saw, the blade and work piece are in cleaner view than a hand held jigsaw. I have always understood these to cut at 90 degrees given how the tool is constructed. This is by design since the arm does not rotate.  Some have tilting tables to make up for this.
Jigsaw
I consider the jigsaw to be the middle ground between a reciprocating saw and a scroll saw. The jigsaw is represented by the other pictures you have shown. It's a smaller reciprocating saw and not fixed like a scroll saw. You can use a variety of blades of varying sizes and material designates. The base on many modern jigsaws pivot to allow angles to be cut. The mobility is arguably its greatest asset. 
As I tried to cover the grey area between sabre saws and jigsaws, I'm with rob in that I do not think reciprocating saws fall into this category. In short sabre saw was a common term to describe a jigsaw and appears to have evolved in name. Older woodworkers still refer to jigsaws as sabre saws.
Reciprocating saws are meant for rough work to get the job done quickly. I have used them in demolition for studs and nails. I own one today for help with pallets. They don't generally have a place in fine woodworking.  
Pictures!
The real reason I wanted to post this is I found more old ads that might explain the evolution of tools and terms. The first I found interesting since it is for a scroll saw from 1880's. Besides being foot pedaled it looks much the same as its powered modern descendant. I have not found any conflicting information as to this tool's name over time. 

Image From AtticPaper
More on the sabre saw/jigsaw mix up

Images from Kijiji
I found this on sale at Kijiji. The great thing about it is that it is labelled as both a jigsaw and sabre saw. I could see this as an attempt to remove the potential confusion between tools' names but that is just speculation. I still think the fight is over and both side are right for this one!
Recipro Saw
One of the earlier models I was able to locate of a "Recipro Saw". Specifically the "Skil Model 577 Recipro Saw". Very similar design to the modern reciprocating saws we see now. Hand placement is relatively the same as well.

Image Source: eBay
In conclusion
These tools all function similarly. Each is better suited for certain work and woodworkers can easily have a bias towards one over the other. As I have seen here at WW countless times is that people will recognize the same tool under a different name but they are not necessarily wrong. 
While I didn't really cover it, the blades are what can make the biggest difference when it comes to how tight the angles are that you can make, how clean the cut is and in some cases depth of cut. 

A:

As many posts have mentioned for a number of tools and techniques, the woodworking terminology waters are muddy. 
Your first image is what I would refer to as a scroll saw; however, in the past these were referred to as jig saws. 
The second two are what I would refer to as jig saws; however, they have also been referred to as saber saws. My understanding is that at some point, the blade of some models of jig saw was made to turn at an angle to the body and that the models with this functionality were referred to as "saber saws." I'm not sure if there's any merit to that.
Finally, a saber saw, while being used interchangeably for a jig saw (the modern handheld meaning) may also be used refer to a reciprocating saw, sometimes called a "Sawzall," which is actually a trademark; it's like calling adhesive bandages band-aids. This is most likely a misuse of the term and I don't recommend calling a reciprocating saw a saber saw. As Rob mentions, I would be surprised to see one labeled as such by a manufacturer.
In short: there is ambiguity, but in my opinion the surest way to ensure people know which you're referring to would be to call your first image a scroll saw, the second two jig saws, and the following image a reciprocating saw.

