Q:

Reinforce bunk bed

I built the below kit bunk bed for my kids and interested in reinforcing the posts to deal with some horizontal sway. It is constructed out of pine and connected with screws, barrel nuts and dowels. The posts are 2” x 2”. I planned to add additional slats but had some concerns on swaying when I would try and shake the bed. Considering adding some metal corner braces directly underneath the top bunk.

A:

I would re-check that you have really tightened all the barrel bolts The ones that lock the post and prevent the racking are the bottom headboards and the 4 top safety rails. Tightening the bottom foot post would help hold the two front posts from racking to the side.
OP –

After tightening, there is still a little rocking side to side in the front of the bunk bed when I give it a shake holding the top of the front posts. When grabbing the front two posts from the middle, that is when they will rock the most.

After looking at your bunkbed on the web, I believe these are the potential areas that are causing the problem on the front posts.  The right side is the most problematic as there are not adequate side pieces attached to the post.  See the picture below:

On the top of the post under the upper bunk, you could add a L-bracket as shown below to provide additional bracing.   At the bottom of the post, where a bracket is most needed, there is no bracing provided in the design of the bunkbed.  It would be difficult to add a bracket at the bottom location without some modification to the bed frame.

A:

The pine 2X2 corner uprights are skimpy ( have low modulus). I think it will require significant diagonal bracing in most corners to stiffen it. I used 1X4 oak boards connected in a "L" for the uprights : that stayed stiff for 45 years and two pairs of boys.

A:

Let me suggest a simpler, but more radical approach.
Drive several long screws through the bed rail which is against the wall, and into 2x4s in the wall. You'll need to locate the studs, of course, but that's not hard. When it comes time to move the bed, you'll need to patch the holes, but they shouldn't be a real problem.
If the bed frame currently does not butt against the wall, make a shim with some scrap wood to fill the gap in the areas the screws penetrate.
This is the standard approach when making large bookcases, and I don't see why it won't work in this case.

