Q:

Making safe cuts: Sliding miter saw vs Radial-arm saw

In multiple questions (this is one) having to do with sliding miter saws, we have been admonished how to correctly make cuts - to wit: with the motor off, pull the saw outward, push the saw down, turn on the motor, push the saw forward, turn off the motor.  This is described as the safe way and even shows up in instructions provided by manufacturers.
Now, when I use my radial arm saw, I pretty much do the opposite, to wit: setup the cut, turn on the motor, pull the saw outward, push the saw back, turn off the motor. I think this is the safe way to do it - have made thousands of cuts without mishap and I'm sure it's the accepted procedure.
So my question is: why is the safe way to make the miter saw cut to push, and for the radial arm saw to pull?  
In both cases the blade is turning the same direction and on both saws the cut board is against a fence.

A:

You are, indeed, using your radial arm saw correctly, but it's important to note the critical differences between the two tools.
In both cases, you would be making a climb cut when pulling the blade toward you.  A climb cut is generally less safe because the blade literally tries to "climb" over the wood as it pulls itself into and over the wood.  If you are not used to using a radial arm saw, it can be difficult to control and can pull itself toward you faster than you may expect, especially if the blade's teeth have a positive hook.
Using a blade with a negative hook angle makes a climb cut easier to control.

So my question is: why is the safe way to make the miter saw cut to
  push, and for the radial arm saw to pull?

Let's start with the second part of that question--simply put, it is impractical to use the radial arm saw any other way. First, you cannot easily raise the blade over the workpiece.  Second, it pushes the workpiece down into the table. The blade's ability to climb over the workpiece is limited by the fact that the blade's height cannot be raised accidentally in the middle of a cut on a properly set up saw. To make a cut with a radial arm saw by pushing the blade instead of pulling it toward you, you would need to pull the blade toward you, position your workpiece behind it, and clamp the workpiece down (to prevent the saw from potentially lifting it off the table).
In contrast, a sliding miter saw does have the ability to raise the blade over your workpiece. However, it does not have any feature to lock its blade down at a fixed height, allowing it even more climbing ability if used to make a climb cut rather than following the recommended procedure.

