Q:

What router to use for a homemade routertable?

I'm planning on building my own router table, including a router lift, pivot functionality, fence, and whatnot. so far i have my materials, a pretty solid plan how to do it and the proper amount of motivation to execute the project.
As there are routers in all shapes, sizes, power and price ranges available i'm at a loss what to buy.
The consens among all the different opinions i read so far is that "SIZE DOES MATTER"! On one side the actual size of the thing where a smaller/lighter motor is preferable, on the other side the brute force the router can produce should by rather high (ideally 1 kW upwards).
The routers that would fit my needs/budget best i think are the following:
Makita RT0700C:

(+) round enclosure and easy to mount (steadily) to a brick of wood
(+) static I/O switch
(+) variable speed control
(+/-) heavy(ish) (3.3 kg or 7,3 lbs)
(-) 710 Watt
(-) bulky head
(-) ~140 € (in Austria)

Kress 06082206 1050 FME-1:

(+) POWER (1050 Watt)
(+) static I/O switch
(+) variable speed control
(+) lightweight (1.7 kg or 3.7 lbs)
(+) quite small, round enclosure which makes it easy to mount in a lift
(-) ~200 € (in Austria)

While i can bring myself around to using one of these (and probably will), on my search for THE perfect router, i stumbled across CNC motors. They are perfectly round metal cylinders with a very low profile (they average at around 5 cm in diameter), weigh next to nothing and are relatively cheap (compared to routers). My favorite at the moment is something i found on eBay for ~100€ with 1.5 kW.
As there are plenty of videos, tutorials, plans, opinions and whatnot out there on the subject i feel like i'm missing some major point here. Why isn't anyone using CNC motors for their homemade router tables? Especially since all those start with some kind of "As i'm on a budget, i'm using..." in the end it's some 200€ router.
Thanks in advance, so long...

A:

I think you may be misunderstanding what a CNC motor is. The CNC motors are stepper motors, and they can be precisely directed to move the X, Y, and Z axes of a CNC machine They need the appropriate signal to tell them to spin, and by what amount. A CNC router still has a regular router attached to it.
This picture may be helpful (image from probotix.com):

The green motors in the picture are the CNC stepper motors. They drive the positioning of each axis. The router actually doing the work is the yellow thing in the middle; it appears to be a standard Dewalt 618.
Note that if you did try to use a motor that isn't already built to be a router, you'd still be missing a lot of important parts, perhaps the biggest of which is the chuck. How would you attach the bits to the motor? Whatever solution you come up with is likely to be an additional expense, and given the speed routers run at, do you trust it not to come apart on you while your bit is in the work piece? 
Another consideration is, how are you going to move it up and down in the router table? The Dewalt in the picture has a spiral channel running the length of the motor casing that allows you to twist it to position it higher or lower (I'm simplifying a bit here, but that's the gist of it). Other routers have similar mechanisms. You could probably use a router lift, but once you're buying or building that, you've lost a lot of the cost savings you're going for and might as well have just bought a normal router.

A:

For a router table, light weight is not an advantage; more power is. (When handheld, the equation may or may not go the other way depending on what you are doing. Which is the reason, other than price, that a range of offerings exists.)
CNC routing motors tend to be equivalent to trim routers, or even lower power, since they aren't asked to cut quickly or drive large bits. Trim routers have become more powerful over the years, and there are in fact mini router tables for them, but if the table is your focus they're a much more limited solution. They also may force you to design your own mounting and height adjustment mechanisms (or to buy and adapt a router lift). Valid observation, but probably not what you are looking for given what little you have told us.

