Q:

Crosscutting 18" diameter logs by hand

I tried my hand at crosscutting a beefy 18" log with a relatively low tooth-per-inch bowsaw today. I eventually made it all the way through, but not without cutting V-slices into the wood to give the blade breathing room and prevent it from constantly jamming, especially as I got into the heartwood. I should also mention that it took me forever.
Am I missing something here? I wonder if I used the right tool or if I should have been hammering in wedges or something. Should I have just used an axe?
(Hand-tool related answers only please – not interested in using chainsaws for various reasons.)
More details:
The log I was cutting was green. The bow saw has no set and was brand new.

A:

I suspect the issue here is with the bowsaw blade not having enough 'set' to the teeth. 
The 'set' of the teeth on a saw blade is how far to either side the teeth are bent out from the main body of the blade, which makes the width of the cut wider and gives the body of the blade some clearance in the saw groove (kerf).
Some bowsaw blades have no set (referred to as zero set); from what I understand bowsaw blades of this type are intended to cut green wood, that is wood that is still very fresh and still quite wet. So if you were cutting a seasoned or even part-dried log the blade would naturally struggle.
If the teeth have set it may just not be enough for the type of cut you were doing, the depth of cut specifically. 
One good general aid to a saw binding in the kerf is to wax the blade. The simplest way to do this is quickly swipe a block or wax or the butt of a candle along the saw. This can make a remarkable amount of difference.
Keeping the cut open with wedges as you ask about might also be beneficial. It certainly can't hurt to try.

A:

Keep the gap open with wedges.  Next to that, sharp teeth are the most important thing.  I learned that lesson with a chainsaw -- even though the engine was doing the work, a dull chain got me nowhere, and after sharpening, it cut like a hot knife through butter.

A:

How was the log supported?  You might consider putting a sawbuck or a piece of log directly under the kerf, making an orientation similar to a see-saw, so that gravity pulls the two halves of the log such that the kerf is self-opening.  This is commonly used when chainsawing logs in the woods so that the saw doesn't get pinched, and it should be applicable to handsaws as well.

