Q:

Why did Christians, who take a huge part of their Bible from Jews, not have to follow the same rules as Jews?

As I'm sure all of you know, the Old Testament is the Hebrew bible. Why then do Christians not follow the same rules as the Jews? When Christianity was attracting attention, Paul said that Jews who converted had to follow the Jewish law, but gentiles did not. If the halacha (Jewish law) is still technically in the Christian bible, then why are things like keeping Kosher not observed by Christians? 
Also, if a Jew were to convert today, do they use Paul's idea, or stop following Jewish law (obviously it's up to the person, but is there any evidence to suggest that that's how it should be done)?

A:

The relevance and applicability of the Mosaic Code to Christians, especially gentile Christians, is a vexed theological question that Paul addresses and tries to finesse in more than one of his epistles—but those are rather theological discourses than mythic narratives, and so less proper for this community’s attention. 
The New Testament narrative most obviously relevant to this point is Peter’s Dream in Acts of the Apostles (Acts 10.9–16), in which a sheet is lowered from heaven holding a variety of animals and a disembodied voice directs Peter to “kill and eat.” Peter, addressing the voice as “Lord,” demurs at first because of Mosaic dietary restrictions, which hold some of these animals to be ritually unclean and “common”—meaning diet for some general population but not for Jews like him. But a disembodied voice tells him not so to regard or term what God has ritually cleansed or purified. And the whole exchange is repeated for a total of three iterations, after which the sheet or “vessel” full of animals is withdrawn back up to heaven. This dream-tale is commonly interpreted as lifting the Mosaic dietary restrictions from the Christian community.
There are also various narratives in the synoptic gospels in which Jesus is shown to despise the Pharisees’ excessive insistence on the letter of the Mosaic Code against common sense and charity (e.g., Luke 14.1–6 & Matt. 12.1–14), but these are more tangentially relevant than Peter’s Dream.

