Q:

Is there an older name for Cecaelia?

Cecaelia is a modern term for a mermaid with an octopus lower body, instead of a fish. I have read that such legends come from ancient Native American and Japanese culture. Does anyone know their original names for these creatures?

A:

In Japanse, these are called 人魚 (lit. human + fish) Ningyo
Several Native American tribes have words and stories regarding mermaids:

Halfway People (Mi'kmaq)
Lumpeguin (Maliseet)
Ne Hwas (Passamaquoddy)
Nibiinaabe (Ojibway)
Water-Babies (Western tribes)

A:

I think I’ve come across the same references to the legends being from Native American and Japanese culture. As far as Japanese origins, all I’ve come across are a few online posts referencing to the artist Katsushika Hokusai (1760-1849), who painted some sexually explicit images of women with octopi, such as the 1814 “Dream of the Fisherman’s Wife.”’
The yokai known as the Jorōgumo is a spider-woman, which is kind of similar at least in the sense of being a hybrid of a human and an eight-limbed creature.
As far as Native American myths, there is a Nuu-chah-nulth (Nootka) tale from the Pacific Northwest titled "Octopus and Raven." In this tale, both are depicted as humans. Octopus appears as a human woman with her hair arranged in eight long braids, which become powerful arms when she is angered.

Keepers of the Animals: Native American Stories and Wildlife Activities for Children, Michael J. Caduto and Joseph Bruchac, pp. 73-74.

I have not been able to find out for sure what the characters' names are in the original language, but according to firstvoices.com, the Nuu-chah-nulth word for Octopus is tiiłuup. Raven is quʔušin.
There also is a Kwakiutl octopus deity named Xa’niyus.
Other than that, however, the site native-languages.org (which I have found very useful) says:

“Octopi do not play a major role in most Native American mythology--
most coastal tribes consider the octopus to be just another type of
shellfish. In some Northwest Coast tribes of British Columbia and
Alaska, the octopus plays a more prominent role as a medicine animal,
considered to have formidable powers over the weather or over sickness
and health.”

The cecaelia is a newly created word dating from 2007, inspired by modern depictions of octopus mermaids like Ursula from the Little Mermaid. The word is a distortion of a similar comic book character named Cilia. So technically, there are no legends or original names.

