Q:

Is there any librarian god?

I'm looking for any god related with books or maybe knowledge. Preferable if it is keeping or guarding that knowledge, like as a librarian. Are there any such gods?

A:

Seshat, also called Sothis, was the Egyptian goddess of libraries, called Mistress of the House of Books. (She was also goddess of math, reading, measurement and writing.) Her name means "female scribe."  
She was connected with Thoth, who invented writing. Different texts described her as his wife, daughter, or female aspect. She wore a leopard-skin dress and a headdress with a flower or seven-pointed star. She doesn't seem to have had any cult or temples, but she features in art from the Early Dynastic Period onward.

A:

Chinese mythology has a heavy emphasis on deification of scholars, beginning with the Yellow Emperor, whose patronage to mankind was primarily as a teacher, inventor and scholar.
There are several Chinese gods who are patrons to scholars:

Wenchang Wang is a patron of scholars and students, often called upon by those about to take the Imperial exams.

You can find some interesting info on Wenchang at this link. (Scholars and poets often practiced the art of straight sword. The great poet, Li Po, was said to be a skilled practitioner.)

Kui Xing is the god of Imperial examinations, and an associate of Wenchang.
Lü Dongbin is a scholar and poet who became one of the 8 immortals, and help humans attain wisdom and enlightenment.

Lü is often depicted with a sword that dispels evil spirits, and as one of the 8 immortals, Lü has superior martial abilities and is, in part, a protector deity.

In the Greek mythology, I think: 

Clio, Muse of History 

Her domain is scholarship as opposed to creative art, and she is often depicted with scrolls and books. 

A:

It will be very difficult to find a "librarian god or goddess" in the in any pagan culture. There are many gods of knowledge, wisdom, scholarship, education and so on.
The closest example I am able to find is the Armenian god Tir. In Armenian pagan culture he is the god of literature, science and art. Being the god of literature in a sense makes him like being the god of libraries. I doubt one will truly find a god of libraries and Tir is the closest I can find to fit the bill as books (literature) are stored in libraries!

Tir is the god of Literature, Science and Art, and interpreter of dreams in Armenian paganism. Tir was a messenger of Aramazd. He was a fortune-teller and a guide of the dead person's soul. Another name for Tir was Grogh (meaning writer or scribe), though this might be a fusion of two originally distinct deities. 
His biggest temple, known as the Erazamuyn (translated from Armenian "place where dreams are explained"), stood at what is today the ruined Zvartnots cathedral; the original design of the temple is still very evident in its construction as it is very different from the typical Armenian church, being circular, elevated by large steps and lined with columns. At Tir's temple, priests would interpret peoples dreams and tell their fortunes, and the temple also served as a library and academy. Ruins of another temple to him was found near the ancient city of Artashat in Ararat valley. He is among the pantheon of gods represented on Mt. Nemrut, an ancient site now located in Turkey. - Tir (WikiPagan)

