Q:

Why does Hector accept Achilles' challenge?

The first time Hector meets Achilles on the battlefield, in Book IX of the Iliad, he is prudent enough to avoid dueling the Myrmidon superhero. However, in Book XXII Hector decides to face Achilles in single combat, a decision that costs him his life. 
Why does Hector accept Achilles' challenge?

A:

Pride and shame
It is put best in book 12, 90-130:
BkXXII:1-89 Priam and Hecabe fail to dissuade Hector | poetryintranslation.com
Which shows his own thinking on the issue: [bolding mine]

But his [Hector's]
  proud thoughts were troubled: ‘Alas, if I retreat through the gate, to
  the safety of the wall, Polydamas will not be slow to reproach me,
  since he advised me to withdraw our forces to the city, on that fatal
  night when Achilles re-appeared. I refused, though it may have been
  better! Now, in my folly, having brought us to the brink of ruin, I’d
  be ashamed to hear some insignificant Trojan, or his long-robed wife,
  say: ‘Hector has brought ruin on the army, trusting too much in his
  own right arm.’ If that’s what they’ll say, then I’d be better by far
  to meet Achilles face to face and kill him before returning to the
  city, or die gloriously beneath its walls. Of course, I could ditch
  the bossed shield and heavy helmet, lean my spear on the wall, and go
  and promise peerless Achilles to return Helen and her treasure to the
  Atreidae, all that Paris brought in the hollow ships to Troy, to begin
  this strife. I could say too that we’ll then divide all the remaining
  treasure in the city, and then induce the Elders to state on oath that
  they’ll conceal no part of that treasure, but grant half of all the
  lovely city holds. But what’s the point of such thoughts? I’ll not
  approach him like a suppliant only to have him show neither mercy nor
  respect, but kill me out of hand, stripped of my armour and
  defenceless as a woman. This is no lover’s tryst of lad and lass, by
  oak or rock! Lad and lass, indeed! Better to meet in bloody combat,
  now, and see to whom Zeus grants the glory!

