Q:

Does Iroquois legend tell where the Sky People came from?

The Iroquois creation myth tells of Sky people that lived in the Sky World.
From firstpeople.us:

In the beginning, the world was not as we know it now. It was a water
  world inhabited only by animals and creatures of the air who could
  survive without land.
Up above, the Sky World was quite different. Human-type beings lived
  there with infinite types of plants and animals to enjoy.
In the Sky World, there was a Tree of Life that was very special to
  the people of the Sky World. They knew that it grew at the entrance to
  the world below and forbade anyone to tamper with the Tree. One woman
  who was soon to give birth was curious about the Tree and convinced
  her brother to uproot the Tree.
Beneath the Tree was a great hole. The woman peered from the edge into
  the hole and suddenly fell off the edge. As she was falling she
  grasped at the edge and clutched in her hand some of the earth from
  the Sky World. As she fell, the birds of the world below were
  disturbed and alerted to her distress. The birds responded and
  gathered a great many of their kind to break her fall and cradle her
  to the back of a great sea turtle. The creatures of the water believed
  that she needed land to live on, so they set about to collect some for
  her. They dove to the great depths of the world's oceans to gather
  earth to make her a place to live. Many of the animals tried to gather
  the earth from the ocean floor, only the muskrat was successful. With
  only a small bit of earth brought onto turtle's back from his small
  paws, Turtle Island began to grow.
The Sky Woman soon gave birth to a daughter on Turtle Island. The
  daughter grew fast. There were no man-beings on Turtle Island, but a
  being known as the West Wind married the daughter of Sky Woman.
Soon the daughter of Sky Woman gave birth to Twins. One was born the
  natural way, and he was called the Right-Handed Twin. The other was
  born in a way that caused the death of the mother. He was called the
  Left-Handed Twin. When their mother died, their grandmother, Sky
  Woman, placed the fistful of earth that she grasped from the edge of
  the Sky World, and placed it on her daughter's grave. The earth
  carried special seeds from the Sky World that were nourished by the
  earth over her daughter. So from the body of her daughter came the
  Sacred Tobacco, Strawberry and Sweetgrass. We call these Kionhekwa.
  The Life Givers.
The Right and Left-Handed Twins were endowed with special creative
  powers. The Right-Handed Twin created gentle hills, beautiful smelling
  flowers, quiet brooks, butterflies and numerous creatures, plants and
  earth formations. His brother the Left-Handed Twin made snakes, thorns
  on rose bushes, thunder and lightning and other more disturbing
  attributes of today's world. Together, they created man and his many
  attributes. The Right-Handed Twin believed in diplomacy and conflict
  resolution. The Left-Handed Twin believed in conflict as resolution.
  They were very different, but all that they created is an integral
  part of this Earth's Creation.
Their Grandmother, Sky Woman, now came to the end of her life. When
  she died, the Twins fought over her body and pulled it apart, throwing
  her head into the sky. As part of the Sky World, there her head
  remained to shine upon the world as Grandmother Moon. The Twins could
  not live together without fighting. They agreed to dwell in different
  realms of the earth. The Right-Handed Twin continued to live in the
  daylight and the Left-Handed Twin became a dweller of the night. Both
  of them continue their special duties to their Mother the Earth.

However, this doesn't tell us where the Sky People came from.  Is there another legend or story that tells us this?
Note: I realize that many Native American tribes have a shared mythos, so other tribes that share this story are also fair sources for an origin of the Sky People.

A:

There isn't much to go on with this one. The best first source I can find is a book called Myths and Legends of the New York State Iroquois, by Harriet Maxwell Converse, 1908. It's about as good of a first source as there's going to be, since Iroquois stories were transmitted from generation to generation orally, and other people like Ms. Converse had to be the ones to write them down.
That said, it seems that the father of the Sky Woman is known by many names, including Sho-gwa-yah-dit-sat-oh (He Who Created Us), Ha-wen-ni-yu (He Who Governs), Hah-ni-go-e-yoo (Good Mind), and To-no-do-oo (Great Spirit). He seems to have been a sort of monotheistic, omnipotent being who then created the earth and all the other gods:

By Iroquois mythology, the earth was the thought of the Indian Ruler of a great island which floats in space. In all of the Iroquois myths, the natural and the supernatural are so closely bonded that they seem one realm. Yet in the story of the creation, the Ruler bestowed universal authority upon the two spirits, Good and Evil, who remain on earth always.

It goes on to tell the story you have in your question and the names of the Great Ruler that I wrote above.
So, the best answer I give is that to ask this question is akin to asking a Jew/Christian "where did God (the Father) come from" or an ancient Greek where the Chaos came from. There is no answer besides "He was always there."

