Q:

Trying to find a hunter myth I was told as a child

When we were small children, our grandma would tell my sister and I stories at bedtime. She loved the Greek myths and Aesop's fables, but I have no idea where this particular story comes from.
It's the story of a hunter in the woods. For some reason he knows that he is meant to wait a specified amount of time for his prey. I do not recall if this was by prophecy or by some divine message.
In any case, he lays in wait for a day or so, and a small animal -- a rabbit I think -- finally emerges into the clearing he has been watching. He is hungry by this point, but knows that he is meant to wait, so he lets the rabbit go undisturbed.
He waits for a second day, and a larger animal appears -- a deer I think -- and although he begins to feel starvation creeping in, he again lets the animal go.
The third day comes, and at last a large animal -- a bull I think -- arrives in the clearing, and the hunter strikes.
Not sure how things go from here, but that's the general progression of the story.
My grandmother and sister are both now passed, but I think about this story frequently. I haven't found anyone else over the years to whom it sounds familiar. If anyone has heard it or something similar -- time may have warped the details to be sure -- I would be very interested to hear.

A:

There is a Dutch folktale about a hunter who waits for a giant hare. Here is a tentative translation:

A hunter once had heard rumors about an extraordinarily large hare, which every
night around midnight came to a certain field in the region, and some strawlers claimed the animal
was bulletproof: no one could hit this giant hare.
One night, the hunter
decided to go and see what was the truth behind what he believed to be a
fairy tale. An hour before midnight he arrived there and found himself a
hiding place.
After a while, an ordinary hare appeared, but the hunter
didn’t shoot and just waited patiently instead. Half an hour later,
another, normal hare passed by in the same way. The hunter still keeps
waiting to catch a glimpse of the 'big animal'.
Then he hears the
village clock striking midnight in the distance, and after a few
moments he thinks he has been fooled. But what does he hear over
there...? Look! There comes a giant hare very calmly jumping straight
towards him. Now watch out... Bang! Bang! The hunter fires two shots. But
indeed, the invulnerable hare isn’t wounded at all! The animal turns its head as if
nothing had happened and shouts mockingly to the hunter: “Hey, are those
two little ones far ahead?”

Source: http://www.verhalenbank.nl/items/show/50265

