Q:

Where are there female centaurs in mythology?

A few months ago, I was reading the Metamorphoses by Ovid (translator unknown). At a time I was reading it just to get through it because it wasn't what I expected (still read it though, albeit not thoroughly). Anyways, I dimly remember a picture of a female centaur.
What are the myths around female centaurs?

A:

Wikipedia has a nice article about the Centaurides, or centauresses, the female centaurs.

First encountered in Greek mythology as members of the tribe of the
  Centauroi, the Centaurides are only occasionally mentioned in written
  sources, but appear frequently in Greek art and Roman mosaics. The
  centauress who appears most frequently in literature is Hylonome, wife
  of the centaur Cyllarus.

In the Literary depictions section of the same article there are two quotes, the first from Philostratus the Elder:

How beautiful the Centaurides are, even where they are horses; for
  some grow out of white mares, others are attached to chestnut mares,
  and the coats of others are dappled, but they glisten like those of
  horses that are well cared for. There is also a white female Centaur
  that grows out of a black mare, and the very opposition of the colours
  helps to produce the united beauty of the whole.

And in the Metamorphoses, Ovid says this about Hylonome:

In the high woods there was none comelier of all the centaur-girls,
  and she alone by love and love’s sweet words and winning ways held
  Cyllarus, yes, and the care she took to look her best (so far as that
  may be with limbs like that). She combed her glossy hair, and twined
  her curls in turn with rosemary or violets or roses, and sometimes she
  wore a pure white lily. Twice a day she bathed her face in the clear
  brook that fell from Pagasae’s high forest, twice she plunged her body
  in its flow, nor would she wear on her left side and shoulder any skin
  but what became her from best-chosen beasts.

Ovid, Metamorphoses, 12.316 ff.
Theoi.com has also a small entry for the Centaurides (Kentaurides), with longer extracts from the same sources.

