Q:

Why did humanizing Enkidu take a work of a prostitute and not of an ordinary woman?

The following lines suggest that Enkidu was humanized as a result of having sex with Shamhat:

When with her delights he was fully sated
  he turned his gaze to his herd.
  The gazelles saw Enkidu, they started to run,
   the beasts of the field shied away from his presence.
... 
Enkidu was weakened, could not run as before,
  but now he had reason, and wide understanding. 

If, then, having sex was what made him realize he was a human, why did it have to be a prostitute to do this labor? Why was not an ordinary woman assigned to do it?

A:

Perceptions on prostitution have changed significantly over time. While it may seem strange today that Shamhat is a prostitute, in the ancient Near East her role was sacred, a role akin to a priestess. An ordinary woman would lack the divine favour Shamhat's role offered her. Therefore she would not be able to civilize Enkidu.
Further reading: Sacred prostitution

A:

As Mesopotamia was one of the first places where our species built cities, naturally myth from there has to try to make sense of this new way of life, and characteristically approaches the problem by antithesis. Gilgamesh is the man of the city, and Enkidu, created to be his antithesis, is the man of the wilderness. 
Gilgamesh responds to the challenge posed by the creation of Enkidu by detailing the harlot Shamhat, a sacred functionary of the temple of Ishtar that is the heart of the city, to citify him. She does this not only by absorbing his animal sexuality in her civilized embrace, but also by feeding him products of settled living: bread and beer. The effect is to contaminate his wildness, to estrange him from his power base in wild nature: afterwards he suffers from more than the normal male post-coital lethargy and his animal brothers shun him.
I compare that effect to the tactic that Heracles used on Antaeus—holding him elevated in a bear-hug, since the normal wrestler’s aim of taking him down to earth would just connect him with his power base, he being by some accounts a son of Gaea.

