Q:

Why is the meaning of Loki's name considered unclear?

It seems obvious that it comes from the Indo-European root lewk. (But then, I'm not an etymologist, so there may be elements I am missing.)  
This is the root of my idea:
Loki's association with Fenrir would seem to validate this (i.e. λύκος/lúkos is also cognate with this stem.) There is actually a very well constructed thesis on the relation of the root words for wolf, locust (i.e. "wolves of the air") and light in relation to Apollo titled "Apollo the Wolf God".  
In addition to that, a relation can be drawn between Loki and Lucifer, the "Morning Star", as nemesis of the "Sky Father/Lord in Heaven".  Further, Loki is an agent of Ragnarok, which can be related to the New Testament idea Armageddon.
There is a similar pre-Christian parallel to Prometheus, who stole fire.  Both defied the Sky Father and were bound.
Finally, the inextricable relationship of Loki and Balder would seem to sugget such a meaning.  The impetus for Loki's treachery is based on his jealousy toward Balder "the Bright". There is no indication that Loki's name has anything to do with darkness, so this is not a relationship of opposites in that regard. Further, much of Loki's stories have to do with cleverness, a modern meaning of "bright".
All of the relevant languages are part of the Indo-European family, and Norse Mythology has many parallels to Greek Mythology.

A:

Because there are many possibilities. Lewk, as you mentioned, but also:

leugh - To tell a lie
leug - To break
lok/loka/luka - Either a lid, a container, or To close; this could be a reference to his role in Ragnarok (killing Heimdall)

Without anything definitive, we're forced to either pick a preference, or admit that there are many possibilities. After all, for all we know, the answer might be all of them.

A:

Just because  two words look similar does not mean they are related. Coincidental resemblances are very common between unrelated words.
Etymology as a science is based on the comparative method where established patterns of correspondences between different languages are considered the main evidence for a particular word's origin. Corresponding words often don't look too similar at first glance: for example, Old Norse tíu and Latin decem. But by comparing different sets of words from languages with a common ancestor, we find repeating patterns that allow us to reconstruct rules of sound change that provide support for hypotheses about etymology.
Considered in terms of correspondences, PIE *lewk as an ancestor of Old Norse Loki is not obvious at all.
Due to Grimm's Law, PIE *k was regularly spirantized to Proto-Germanic *h in most phonological contexts. We can see this in the reconstructed PG words listed on that Wiktionary page:  *leuhtaz, *leuhtą, *leuhsaz, *leuhsą. So you  would have to explain how it developed to /k/ instead in "Loki."
I am not very familiar with the development of Norse vowels, but it looks like the diphthong "eu" generally became "jó" (for example, in the words Ljótr and ljóss). "Loki" obviously does not contain "jó". So that is another problem with your proposed etymology (although I don't know if the vowel "u" in the zero-grade form of this PIE root, *luk, would be more plausible as an an ancestor of Old Norse "o").
I'm not an etymologist, so I don't know these details. There may in fact be explanations for how this root could develop to "Loki." But evidently, they are not convincing enough to establish a consensus view. And it's certainly not convincing to just say "it seems obvious." That's not just inexact science, it's not doing science at all.

