Q:

Are dwarves and dark elves the same?

I remember reading somewhere that in Norse mythology dwarves and dark elves are the same thing. Then I started reading Gylfaginning and it sounded like they were different, but then later on they send someone to get help from the dwarves in Svartalfheim, which I'm pretty sure is probably 'dark elf home.'
So, are dwarves and dark elves the same thing? Or are they different beings that happen to live in the same place? Something else?
(Note: I haven't finished Gylfaginning yet, I'm finding it a bit of a tough read.)

A:

The thirteenth-century writings of Snorri Sturluson are remarkable, but they must be placed in context. He wrote long after conversion, and his work was likely affected by the fogging of the lens caused by time and the shift in beliefs caused by the arrival of Christianity. In addition, Snorri's Iceland was far removed from Scandinavia, so anything that one might say about Iceland might not apply to Norway, Denmark, or Sweden, regardless of the period.
Classifying supernatural beings is always problematic since it depends on the fluid testimonies of informants who might not agree with one another and whose observations can change from time to time. Since people might disagree with the use terms and designations, it is absurd to attach too much importance to these sorts of classifications if one is attempting to understand the folk's belief system.
Regardless of how Snorri intended his terms of various supernatural beings, his specific categories would probably have meant very little to the folk themselves who would have likely argued with one another about the merits of Snorri's work. We encounter problems with attempts at rigid taxonomy organized by the early folklorists of the nineteenth century. Although their work is of interest and is always a starting point, we generally move past their attempts at classification with an understanding that the folk did not always "follow the rules" established by the early scholars who attempted to understand folk traditions. 
In short, I suggest you not over think what Snorri has to say about these categories.

A:

Norse mythology often alludes to nine worlds. Eight of these are known with relative certainty:

Asgard, realm of the Aesir
Vanaheim, realm of the Vanir
Alfheim, realm of the (light) elves
Midgard, realm of men
Jotunheim, realm of the Jotun (giants)
Muspell, realm of fire
Niflheim, realm of ice
Hel, real of the dishonorable dead

The missing ninth world depends on the source. The two most frequently cited are Svartalfheim, realm of the dark elves, and Nidavellir, realm of the dwarves. As there are supposed to be exactly nine worlds, not ten, the logical conclusion is that Svartalfheim and Nidavellir are the same. Thus dark elves and dwarves refer to the same creature.

