Q:

Why is 12 such a holy number?

In many religions, such as the Greeks, the number 12 is considered holy and sacred for many generations. There are 12 main gods in Greek mythology, Odin had 12 sons in Norse mythology, 12 disicples of Christ in Christinaity, and 12 Imams in the Islam religion. 
So why exactly is the number 12 considered sacred and holy by many religions?
Note: This answer by naltipar has inspired my question. He has said this, which deems my question unanswered as of now:

I have found no reference (and I believe there isn't any) as to why it is deemed a special number, apart from the fact that it had many mathematical properties, such as being the first number with six divisors.

A:

According to Kabbalah mysticism, The Tree of Life is the developed symbol which can be used as a full model of reality, using the tree to depict a map of Creation.
A Tree of Life consist 10 sephiroth (11th is hidden) and 22 paths (22 Hebrew letters) - 3 horizontal, 7 vertical and 12 diagonals.

Source and image credits: The Tree of Life at Hermetic Kaballah
In Renaissance occult philosophy, Cornelius Agrippa provides tables of correspondences ("scales") for all the numbers up to twelve. 
There are close relationship to the ancient hermetic notion of sympathies and harmonic connection via a higher world of the divine essences.
These are the dimensions of Creation and the fundamental building blocks of our reality.
We can divide them into the following groups:
Motion:

Time (Physical motion).
Feeling (Emotional motion).
Thought (Mental motion).

Space:

Spherical separation (Sphere).
Circular separation (Diameter).
Linear separation (Radius).

Energy (All matter is energy):

Electric energy (the building block of physical matter).
Magnetic energy (the primal field of the universe).
Etheric energy (Life energy, traditionally referred as Prana or Chi).

Consciousness of the Creator:

Infinite Universes.
Mother Creator principle.
Father Creator principle.

Our life on Earth functions within first 3 by 3 matrix (9 intertwined dimensions).
Source: The 12 dimensions of Creation.

A:

This seems to be the answer as 12 is honored mathematically and religiously. In terms of math, it seems to be involved in lots of combinations as shown:

The numbers 1,2 and 3 are all prime numbers and are symbolic of creation through the holy trinity. The number 12 would be reduced in numerology as 1+2=3, which means that the number 12 is also symbolic of the trinity. According to the rules of music vibration, we know that octaves of the fundamental vibration are created through multiplication or division from the number two. Two times twelve is 24 and half of 12 is 6. It is interesting to note that all prime numbers greater than 3 (the original trinity of prime numbers) are properties of the number six. The formula for creating prime numbers is 6n + 1where n is any number and + 1 is symbolic of unity or the original cause. For example: 6*2 = 12 and 12 – 1 is 11 and 12 + 1 is 13 and 11 and 13 are prime numbers. 6 *3 is 18 and 18 – 1 is 17 and 18 + 1 is 19 and both 17 and 19 are prime numbers.

Religiously, it is known as the symbolic of the creation of the universe as it represents the division or fractionating of unity (God) into twelve individual distinct vibrations or tones. Of course, there is more to the number 12 in the religious way, but there is simply too much.
Source: Sacred Science

A:

The number twelve is considered holy by many religions and in many circumstances. Usually, it's never argued why it is such an important number, but it's present in many holy texts, accompanying important figures. Since the quote in the question is mine, I'd like to insist that there is not clear evidence as to why it is an important number from a religious aspect. Yes, once can judge from the multiple occurrences that it is an important number, but the mythological texts never go into details as to why it is so.
It's usually explained in a mathematical essence. The number 10 is quite important nowadays due to the use of the decimal system. Since the use of the Duodecimal and Sexagesimal systems was widespread at the time, 12 was considered to have an important meaning on a mathematical aspect.
That said, it is wrong to treat the number 12 as... 12.
It's:

10 in the duodecimal system
C in the hexadecimal system
1100 in the binary system 

and so on. We should rather focus on properties which are independent of the numerical system.

First number with six divisors
12 hours a day, 12 hours a night, 12 months etc (actually attributed to the use of the duodecimal system) 
Considered a divine number by mathematicians such as Pythagoras.

