Q:

Do any Mediterranean mythologies depict souls escaping from the Underworld without the help of a living rescuer?

Persephone was rescued from the Underworld (for a little while) by Hermes, who brought her back to Demeter.
Eurydice was (almost) rescued from the Underworld by Orpheus.
Semele was rescued from the Underworld by Dionysus (with the help of Herakles).
Alcestis was rescued from the Underworld by Herakles, along with a bunch of other people.

It seems to be a common trope (at least in Greek mythology) for souls to be rescued from the Underworld, but only ever by a person or god who is still alive. So I'm curious: do any myths exist anywhere in Greek mythology of souls escaping from the Underworld on their own, or with the help of other dead souls? Any "prison break" myths of souls so slippery they escaped Hades and returned to the mortal world, or else who earn their release through a favor or deal with Hades?
And if not, do any other mythologies in that region (Roman, Egyptian, Phoenician, Sumerian, etc) have myths along those lines? Or was "you can't get out of the Underworld without help" an absolutely ironclad rule?

A:

I doubt that this has anything to do with Mediterranean cultures specifically.
The myth of Izanagi/Izanami in Japanese Shinto is straightforwardly identical to the myth of Orpheus (only that the protagonists are gods in the Japanese myth).
Also Greek myths and other myths in the region could have been influenced by other previous non-Mediterranean cultures. In Mesopotamia there is the myth of Ishtar (one of the main goddess) that descends into the Underworld and gets trapped trying to find his lover and is later rescued by another person sent by Ea, another god. Other versions include somekind of periodic exchange similar to Persephone. The hero Gilgamesh also descended into the underworld to try to find his friend Enkidu.
Other similar stories from other parts of the world include the hero twins from Mayan' Popol Vuh and the hero Mwindo from Nyanga culture of Congo.
Note: I noticed that you included Sumer in your question, but I would not call Sumer a Mediterranean culture.
Edit:
Concerning escaping the underworld without help, I guess the most well known case in Greek mythology is that of Sisyphus. After escaping death (Thanatos) once, Sisyphus ordered his wife to throw his death body in a public square. Sisyphus convinced Persephone that his wife was unrespectful and that he must go to the world of the living again to scold her. He did so, but did not return to the underworld and escaped. Of course, he was later killed by Zeus again and was punished for all eternity to push a rock on a hill up and back down again and again.

