Q:

Are Greek Myths and Heroes Rooted in actual History and People?

I completed reading a book titled "Old Greek Stories" by James Baldwin.
It features some well known Ancient Heroes such as Theseus & Perseus. 
But the way it was told seemed like several nations and locations in that world (Crete/Aegean/Thebes) got their name or origin as a result of some hero's journey.
Such as the Formation of Athens.
Are Greek Hero stories rooted in real Life persons ? 
Were they part of the narrative constructed to glorify a Ruler, or by Inhabitants of a Society to show them of superior pedigree ?

A:

The Wikipedia article for Theseus ends its introduction with this:

As the subject of myth, the existence of Theseus as a real person has
  not been proven, but scholars believe that he may have been alive
  during the Late Bronze Age possibly as a king in the 8th or 9th
  century BC.

This assertion is based on Classical Mythology Tenth Edition. Quoting the relevant parts:

History and Legend. Theseus of all the legendary heroes has the strongest claims to being a real person. As stated above, he was for
  Plutarch a historical figure and he very likely was one of the kings
  of Athens perhaps in the ninth or eighth century B.C. But serious
  historical and chronological problems arise when we try to understand
  how he appears as the great conqueror of the legendary Minotaur and a
  king of Athens in the earlier Mycenaean Age and also a later king of
  Athens who has more serious claims to reality. Were there two
  Theseuses or only one, around whom all the stories clustered? Some
  scholars question the traditional dates established for the Dark Age
  that descended upon Greece after the fall of the Mycenaean kingdoms,
  ca. 1100–800 B.C.; on the basis of comparative studies, they would
  eliminate this Dark Age altogether or at least place the chronology of
  the legendary Mycenaean kings of Athens much closer in time to the
  chronology of the later historical monarchy, thus making one
  historical Theseus more comprehensible.
The excavations of Sir Arthur Evans in Crete seem to confirm details
  of Minoan-Mycenaean and Athenian saga. For one thing, the elaborate
  palace at Cnossus with its complexity of levels and maze of rooms does
  suggest a labyrinth. For the history and archaeology of the Minoan and
  Mycenaean period, see MLS, Chapter 2.

Morford, Mark; Lenardon, Robert J.; Sham, Michael. "Classical Mythology Tenth Edition". Oxford University Press. Oxford University Press.
Worth mentioning too the idea of Euhemerism:

an approach to the interpretation of mythology in which mythological
  accounts are presumed to have originated from real historical events
  or personages. Euhemerism supposes that historical accounts become
  myths as they are exaggerated in the retelling, accumulating
  elaborations and alterations that reflect cultural mores. It was named
  for the Greek mythographer
  Euhemerus, who lived in the
  late 4th century BC. In the more recent literature of myth, such as
  Bulfinch's Mythology, euhemerism is termed the "historical theory" of
  mythology.

