Q:

How did Poseidon became lord of Helicon?

In Homeric Hymn 22 (to Poseidon), we learn that Poseidon is lord of mount Helicon:

I begin to sing about Poseidon, the great god, mover of the earth and fruitless sea, god of the deep who is also lord of Helicon and wide Aegae. A two-fold office the gods allotted you, O Shaker of the Earth,  to be a tamer of horses and a saviour of ships!
Source: http://data.perseus.org/citations/urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0013.tlg022.perseus-eng1:1

Do we know how the god of the sea became associated with the mythologically important mountain?

A:

That is a good question. There were several springs on Mt. Helicon, and I suspect the answer is connected to them. I found an interesting suggestion under "Hippocampus" in Wikipedia:

The appearance of hippocampi in both freshwater and saltwater is
  counter-intuitive to a modern audience, though not to an ancient one.
  The Greek picture of the natural hydrological cycle did not take into
  account the condensation of atmospheric water as rain to replenish the
  water table, but imagined the waters of the sea oozing back landwards
  through vast underground caverns and aquifers, rising replenished and
  freshened in springs.
Thus it was natural for a temple at Helike in the coastal plain of
  Achaea to be dedicated to Poseidon Helikonios, (the Poseidon of
  Helicon), the sacred spring of Boeotian Helikon. When an earthquake
  suddenly submerged the city, the temple's bronze Poseidon accompanied
  by hippocampi continued to snag fishermens' nets.

Poseidon was god of earthquakes and horses as well as the sea. If Helicon had suffered tremors before it was submerged, that could explain the dedication to Poseidon. The spring at Helicon was supposedly created when Pegasus's hoof struck earth, or on the advice of Posedion himself, to stop its rising to heaven.  
Two other springs there, the Aganippe and the Hippocrene, both have the word hippos, horse, in their names, which also suggest a connection to Poseidon.

