Q:

What scripture describes humans as being morally superior to angels?

At the climax of Fate/stay night's Heaven's Feel route, the main antagonist, Kirei Kotomine refers to a religious scripture that says humans are morally superior to angels because humans can choose between committing good or evil acts. Is there such a scripture that mentions this?

A:

From the video:
“A certain scripture mentions that humans are superior beings to angels."
The character misunderstands the scriptural reference - it refers to Jesus, not to humans generally. (Though humans who find the 'Narrow Path' will be "given a new name" - Rev. 2:17, and others.)

Hebrews 1:5 (KJV) 
(Commentaries can be found here:
  https://www.studylight.org/commentary/hebrews/1-4.html )
2 Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath
  appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
3 Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his
  person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he
  had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the
  Majesty on high:
4 Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by
  inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
5 For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son,
  this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father,
  and he shall be to me a Son?
Philippians 2:6-11 (KJV)
6 Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal
  with God:
7 But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a
  servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
8 And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became
  obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
9 Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name
  which is above every name:
10 That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in
  heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
11 And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to
  the glory of God the Father.

