Q:

What do faeries do with kidnapped human children?

Fairies -- sidhe, elves (not the Tolkien type), fairy folk etc -- have the bad habit of replacing human babies with their own for whatever reason, creating changelings ("children that have been changed, replaced"). A changeling grows among humans and later discovers his true calling.
But what happens with the kidnapped human children? Is there some sort of consensus as to what fairies actually do with them? I'm assuming it's nothing good, but besides a brief note in the Wikipedia saying that "in Scottish folklore, the children might be replacements for fairy children in the tithe to Hell" there is very little information about the possible fate of such kids.
EDIT: While I'm interested in all possible cultures, I'm especially interested in Ireland and Britain.

A:

"Is there some sort of consensus as to what fairies actually do with them?"

No. Because there is no consistent Hiberno-British folk mythology. Any apparent or alleged consistent anything about that was made up (or, let's be generous, synthesised) later.
You can look at any attempt to record folk traditions from various places and periods, and they will be different. Some suggest both good and evil purposes in the kidnappings. Sometimes they are raised and live among the fairies in joy, in some they are used as servants (treated cruelly or kindly), and some they are used for torturous entertainment (though possibly only once they've grown up a bit).
The nature of changelings varies in different sources as well. In some they are fairies pretending to be human children - in at least one reference I read, that's the whole purpose of the deception, rather than the taking of the child - they want human milk. In those, the fairy will sneak off at some later date. In others they are fairies who don't know they are fairies pretending to be human children, and they awake to their otherly nature later. In yet others, they are short-lived magical constructs and sicken and die.
The versions recorded by folklorists from prior centuries are of no inherently greater value than those 'created' by fiction writers in the second half of the twentieth century, or in the early years of the twenty-first. We have so little to go on in terms of reliable sources that it's all anyone's guess.

