Q:

Examples of wild men or women civilized through sex?

In the beginning of the Epic of Gilgamesh, the prostitute Shamhat civilizes the wild man Enkidu through sex:

She did for the man the work of a woman,
  his passion caressed and embraced her.
  For six days and seven nights
  Enkidu was erect, as he coupled with Shamhat.  
When with her delights he was fully sated,
  he turned his gaze to his herd.
  The gazelles saw Enkidu, they started to run,
  the beasts of the field shied away from his presence.  
Enkidu had defiled his body so pure,
  his legs stood still, though his herd was in motion.
  Enkidu was weakened, could not run as before,
  but now he had reason, and wide understanding.  
Source: The Epic of Gilgamesh, translated by Andrew George, Penguin Books

Do we know of other stories of wild/feral men or women getting civilized through sex? And if so, how do they differ (if at all) from the archetypal story of Shamhat?

A:

The Graeco-Roman equivalent is Hermaphroditus and Salmacis. Although in Ovid's Metamorphoses, the original text must be older, as it is preserved on an inscription (the so-called "Pride of Halicarnassus") found near Salmacis (a fountain near Halicarnassus). I reproduced the relevant part below:
"Pride of Halicarnassus" lines 11-22:

Father Zeus made the sons of Earth famous ritual attendants
  who guard the secret dwelling
  Nor was the reward they got in return for their toil one of ingratitude:
  They received good things for their good deeds:  
Having settled the lovely promontory sung of as dear to the immortals
  by the sweet stream of Salmakis, she (Halikarnassos) controls
  the beautiful dwelling of the nymph who once received
  our boy, Hermaphroditos, in her kindly arms
  and bred him to become an extraordinary man, who invented matrimony  
for mankind and was the first to fasten the matrimonial bed by law.
  She in her turn under the sacred streams dripping in
  the cave tempers the savage minds of men.

Translated by Signe Isager, from Isager's article "The Pride of Halikarnassos: Editio princes of an inscription from Salmakis," Zeitschrift für Papyrologie und Epigraphik 123 (1998): 1–23.
Ovid's tale turns it outright into a rape, which you can read on Theoi (as it's too long to post in full here).

