Q:

Eros Has Two (or More) Mommies. Is there a "right" one?

I had always believed from previous readings that Eros (Cupid), the archer-god of love, was the son of Aphrodite, and his father wasn't mentioned. I now read in Eros's entry on Theoi.com that his parentage is variously ascribed to:

Gaea and Ouranos
Aphrodite and Ares
Aphrodite and Ouranos
The primordial Chaos, also called the goddess Nyx
Iris (the rainbow) and Zephryos (the West Wind)
a few other couples whose names I don't recognize

Given that we're talking about stories which are like three millennia old, is there any way to determine who are the "right" mother and father for Eros? Is it by virtue of volume? (that is, the most myths have him as the child of X and Y, so we're calling that "correct") Is it by whatever stories are oldest? Is it by whichever myth had the most adherents at the time?
I've never seen a deity's origins quite so varied, so I'm not sure which, if any, to declare as "the right one." 

A:

This is not an uncommon occurrence in Classical Mythology due to the wide variety of textual sources over a period of more than 1000 years.  
Hesiod may be the oldest source, and it could certainly be argued he is the most significant of the sources and for that reason his version could be taken as definitive, but clearly subsequent Classical authors disagreed and felt compelled to offer different accounts.
Sappho, for instance, was a great poet and thus her insights should not be lightly discounted.  
Pausanias was an historian and reports two conflicting opinions on the parentage--one account confirms Hesiod and one presents an alternate belief.  But his offering of two accounts validates that, even in the Classical period, such questions were subject to disagreement or dispute. (Many deities had unique, local variants, and in some cases multiple deities may have merged into a single deity as cultures merged.) 
Plato is one of the great philosophers and although his take was undoubtedly meant as allegory, it should likewise be considered important.
I'm just grabbing a few of the sources to highlight the point that the myths are "living" and subject to change and re-interpretation over time.

A followup question you may want to consider (as it would surely yield some interesting analysis) is "What are the possible meanings of the different versions of the parentage of Eros?"

