Q:

What treasure was made by famous mortal men, who we know by name, in Greek mythology?

The stories of ancient Greek mythology mention many cases when mortal men use treasure forged by gods, usually by Hēphaistos.  
The most famous example might be the armor of Achilleus, which Odysseus has won after Achilleus's death.  Another example is the golden bridle Bellerophon got from Athēnē to tame Pēgasos, although it's not quite clear who made that bridle.  But it is not these artifacts used for big heroic feats that seem so strange to me, but the ordinary household objects in rich kings' houses.  The example that has made the most impression on me is in the Odyssey chapter 4, when Menelaos gives a vessel forged by Hēphaistos as a present to Tēlemachos.
With all that divine made treasure, I find it strange that I've never heard of any famous mortal smiths in Greek mythology.  If arts and crafts is so important when a god does it, than why do the myths never remember the mortal men who do the same? 
This hole seems especially jarring in contrast to other mythologies, which tell about the Sampo that Ilmarinen has made, and the Silmarils, the jewels that Fëanor has made.
So here's my question.  Is there a famous mortal smith in Greek mythology of whom we know the name, and something about what objects he has made?

A:

Perhaps the best example is the Golden Fleece, a treasure in every sense of the word. It was created when Phrixus sacrificed a winged ram his mother Nephele sent to carry him to safety. The lamb was fathered by Poseidon when he turned Theophane into an ewe, so divine influences played a role in sourcing the material. But credit for the actual creation surely belongs to Phrixus, even if it was just skinning a ram.
Another example, though not really much of a treasure, is the sevenfold Shield of Ajax. It was said to be crafted by Tychius of Hyle, who was famed as the best leatherworker of the time. According to the Iliad 7.206:

Ajax came up bearing his shield in front of him like a wall - a shield of bronze with seven folds of oxhide - the work of Tychius, who lived in Hyle and was by far the best worker in leather.

Source: Iliad, Book 7
Lastly, another possible example is the ship Argo, used by Jason and Argonauts. It was built by Argus, after whom the ship was named. However Athena is often said to have played a role in its creation, so this is only a marginal case.

A:

This answer relates to the secondary question, regarding inventors and craftsmen specifically, as opposed to the forging of miraculous weapons.
Pliny the Elder devotes an entire chapter of Naturalis Historia (The Natural History) to the inventors of things.
The inventions are too numerous to list here. Daedalus is credited with the invention of the axe, although in the context of carpentry.
However you may find this passage to be of interest:

The first battles were fought by the Africans against the Egyptians, with clubs, which they are in the habit of calling phalange. Prœtus and Acrisius were the first to use shields, in their contests with each other; or, as some say, Chalcus, the son of Athamas. Midias, the Messenian, invented the coat of mail, and the Lacedæmonians the helmet, the sword, and the spear. Greaves and crests were first used by the Carians; Scythes, the son of Jupiter, it is said, invented the bow and arrows, though some say that arrows were invented by Perses, the son of Perseus. Lances were invented by the Ætolians; the javelin, with the thong attached, by Ætolus, the son of Mars; the spear of the light infantry by Tyrrhenus; the dart by Penthesilea, the Amazon; the axe by Pisæus; the hunting-spear, and the scorpion to hurl missiles, by the Cretans; the catapulta, the balista, and the sling, by the Syrophœnicians. Pisæus, the Tyrrhenian, was the first to invent the brazen trumpet, and Artemon, of Clazomenæ, the use of the testudo. The battering-horse, for the destruction of walls, which is at the present day styled the "ram," was invented by Epeus, at Troy. Bellerophon was the first who mounted the horse; bridles and saddles for the horse were invented by Pelethronius. The Thessalians, who are called. Centauri, and who dwell along Mount Pelion, were the first to fight on horse—Back. The people of Phrygia were the first who used chariots with two horses; Erichthonius first used four. Palamedes, during the Trojan war, was the first who marshalled an army, and invented watchwords, signals, and the use of sentinels. Sinon, at the same period, invented the art of correspondence by signals. Lycaon was the first to think of making a truce, and Theseus a treaty of alliance.
  SOURCE: Pliny the Elder, The Natural History, 7.57

So, while the weapons listed are not magical, we have:

Midias, the Messenian: Chainmail
Scythes, son of Jupiter: Bow & Arrow
Perses, son of Perseus: Arrows (alternate)
Ætolus, son of Mars: Javelin w/ Strap
Tyrrhenus: Light Infantry Spear
Penthesilea the Amazon: Dart
Pisæus: War Axe
Epeus, son of Panopeus: Battering Ram (at Troy)

A:

I know of no metal-smiths that have been mentioned in Greek myth - that aren't gods anyway - but there are craftspeople who have been remembered.
Semaphore mentioned Phrixus, Tychius and Argus. I'd throw in Arachne as well, whose weaving was so excellent, she competed against Athene and no winner was declared. Arachne was turned into the first spider as punishment.

