Q:

Were bad human traits contained in Pandora's Box?

What I am asking for is if there is a source that fluently describe everything that went out when the jar was opened. I already know that it contained any kind of sickness, death, but was there any bad traits included?
I mean hope is something people have. In a relative way we can assume that greed, jealousy and other negative traits could be included in the jar too, but I am not sure if there is a source to support that.
I am already aware of this question:
What exactly was in Pandora's Box?
What can we know about the myth according to Hesiod or other ancient Greek sources?
If any Greek philologist spot my question, I would be really grateful to get links on Greek sources to study, as I am Greek myself, so sources in Greek are very welcome. (That doesn't mean that I won't appreciate a source in English though)
If there are NO exact on specific things, are there any groups of things that can be contained in the jar?
Edit:
What I am asking for is if there is a way to confirm or deny for sure that greed, jealousy and other negative human traits were included in the jar. I also ask for the source that supports that, but being limited to ancient Greece and not Greek Roman era.

A:

This question is much more complicated than it seems at first glance, and there's a lot that could be said about how the Greeks conceived of personality traits and why we should never think about myths in a purely logical fashion.
But I think if we tried asking an ancient Greek this question, they would say that yes, of course, things like greed and jealousy were in the pithos. We can say this with some confidence because most famously elpis (hope) was in the box, and this is a comparable trait to something like greed.
There is, however, a difference between someone being greedy and greed itself personified as a daemon of sorts. Greed and Hope are abstract concepts made concrete by turning them into divine powers, but they are not necessarily required for being greedy or being hopeful. Personality traits instead are what the gods gave people. For example, in creating Pandora, Hesiod in the Theogony says that:

[Hermes] the Guide, the Slayer of Argos, contrived within her lies and crafty words and a deceitful nature at the will of loud thundering Zeus, and the Herald of the gods put speech in her. And he called this woman Pandora (All-Gifts), because all they who dwelt on Olympos gave each a gift, a plague to men who eat bread.

So personality traits, what people are like, exist separately from what's inside the pithos, while one could conceive of something like Greed being released upon mankind when the pithos is opened.

