Q:

Can the Greek Gods Be "Killed"?

If Zeus and his siblings were able to hold Chronos down and chop him into pieces, effectively "killing" him, could there be a way for the gods or goddesses to die as well?
Or in other words, can the gods be destroyed so that they are reduced to a state of formlessness from which they are unable to return? 
And since the Titans were actually stronger than the gods, would it take as much power/people to kill them, or would it be easier for them to be killed? 
In similarity to the version of the story of Chronos in which he is imprisoned, could any of the gods or goddesses be captured and/or imprisoned? What would be able to hold them? And again, would it be easier to capture the gods than it was to do the same thing to Chronos or the Titans?

A:

Offhand, I can't think of any examples of Greek gods dying.  

Casting down into Tartarus seems to be the favored Ancient Greek methods for taking the old powers "off the game board".  
The turning to stone of Atlas is an alternate method, although he "lives on" as a mountain range that still bears his name.  (This is similar to the memoriams of various tragic figures in Greek mythology who are transformed into constellations.)  
Dionysus/Zagreus was dismembered and returned to life, so even sparagmos is not lethal for such creatures.  [See also this answer for a little more detail.] 
The binding of Prometheus is another example of constraining a rival power without killing that power, possibly because that power represents an eternal idea or ideas.  (Plato would likely provide insight into this concept, which features in Ancient Greek mythology and philosophy, and provides an intersection for the two fields.)

Where we do tend see fatal consequences for supernatural creatures in Greek Mythology is the vanquishing monsters to tame the landscape so that civilization may blossom.  Heracles is particularly famous for this, killing creatures such as the Hydra in his labors, and taking part in the Gigantomachy in which many earth born giants were slain.

Sorry for the brevity of this answer.  When I get some more time, I'll try to come back and add more detail and links.  In the meantime, you might want to read a little Ovid--his Metamorphosis is a very comprehensive catalog of of the myths by perhaps the most influential of all the ancient mythographers (not least per his tremendous influence on Shakespeare) and you will immediately note an emphasis on transformation as opposed to death.  

A:

Yes, they can die. Only example for this is Pan: 

Then the voice said aloud to him, When you are arrived at Palodes, take care to make it known that the great God Pan is dead. 

Plutarch. Plutarch's Morals. Translated from the Greek by several hands. Corrected and revised by. William W. Goodwin, PH. D. Boston. Little, Brown, and Company. Cambridge. Press Of John Wilson and son. 1874.
As for how he died... no idea.

Related question: How rare is a dead god?

A:

The Greek Gods can't "Die", but they can be crippled forever, chopped into tiny pieces, or just fade.  For example, when Kronos sliced Ouranus (Uranus) to death, Ouranus was never able to have a physical form again.  In the 3rd Century BC, people referred to Apollo and Helios and Artemis and Selene as the same gods.  Then eventually people forgot about both Helios and Selene.  That would mean that Helios and Selene faded.
So, they can only be put in extreme agony or fade forever.
Source 1: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollo

