Q:

Where did the Roman gods live?

The ancient Greek gods lived on the famous Mount Olympus, which is an actual mountain in Greece.
The Romans borrowed quite a bit of mythology from the Greeks, so I at first assumed that the Roman gods lived somewhere similar, if not in the exact same place (though perhaps with the mountain renamed and moved somewhere else). Strangely enough, though, I have not been able to find any ancient accounts that make that claim - nor any mention of the home of the Roman gods at all, save for on a certain (rather untrustworthy and often inaccurate) question-and-answer site.
Where did the Roman gods live? Were they said to live on Mount Olympus (or an equivalent place), or was their home somewhere else?

A:

The Romans also thought them to live on Mount Olympos. For instance, Lucius Annaeus Seneca writes in his play Hercules Furens that, appealing to Jupiter for mercy, Amphitryon prayed:

[205] O magne Olympi rector et mundi arbiter,
Jam statue tandem gravibus aerumnis modum
O mighty ruler of Olympus, judge of all the world,
  set now at length a limit to our crushing cares, an end to our disasters.

In the rest of the play, Senea used Roman names to refer to the deities, such as Juno instead of Hera:

[213-4] Sequitur a primo statim infesta Juno 
From his very birth relentless Juno has pursued him.

Hence, the Roman equivalent of Olympos is Olympos.

A:

There is probably something also to be said about the Lares and the Penates.
The Lares, as guardian deities (of Etruscan origin), were protecting homes, fields, cities, crossroads, etc. (One Lar protecting one home or one field, etc.) while Penates were specifically protecting household and both were thought to inhabit the place they were protecting.
Some literary evidence for this can be found in Plaut's Aulularia for instance:

LAR FAMILIARIS
  That no one may wonder who I am, I shall inform you briefly. I am the Household God of that family from whose house you saw me come. For many years now I have possessed this dwelling, and preserved it for the sire and grandsire of its present occupant.

Or in Ovid's Fasti:

They were commanded to move the Lares to their new homes

Or again in Cicero's De domo sua:

[109] What is there more holy, what is there more carefully fenced round with every description of religious respect, than the house of every individual citizen? here are his altars, here are his hearths, here are his household gods: here all his sacred rites, all his religious ceremonies are preserved
[109 ]quid est sanctius, quid omni religione munitius quam domus unius cuiusque civium? hic arae sunt, hic foci, hic di penates, hic sacra, religiones, caerimoniae continentur

Whether the Lares qualify properly as Gods and not just spirits is to be debated though, since they were basically deified ancestral spirits. The Penates however (as in Cicero excerpt) were explicitely called gods.

A:

Reading through the wiki article on Jupiter:

Many of his functions were focused on the Capitoline ("Capitol Hill"), where the citadel was located. He was the chief deity of the early Capitoline Triad with Mars and Quirinus.

It seems that if there were a location, the Capittoline hill would be it, 

Many of his functions were focused on the Capitoline ("Capitol Hill"), where the citadel was located. 

It seems that the Roman's view was closer to the current view of the deity : in the sky ,  and the temples are the house of the god. It is possible that the Olympus version of the indo-European deities  is particular to the region of Greece. That mostly people in other  mediteranean countries had the concept of deity as somewhere in the sky, or sea, or underworld , focused on their temples. The cultural incursion of the greek point of view introduces the need for a "location where Gods gather",  and the Olympus site was adopted for the Roman gods too. 
It seems also that Norse mythology has a home for the gods to gather , 

In the middle of the world, high up in the sky is Asgard. It is the home of the gods and goddesses. The male gods in Asgard, are called Aesir, and the female gods are called Asynjur. Odin is the ruler of Asgard, and the chief of the Aesir. Odin is married to Frigg; she is the Queen of the Aesir. Inside the gates of Asgard is Valhalla; it is the place where the Vikings "Einherjer" that died in battle will go for the afterlife.

