Q:

Where do Easter eggs come from?

In Christian cultures, many people give Easter eggs as presents at Easter. They can be painted chicken's eggs, or they can be chocolate. What are the origins of this practice as a Christian tradition?

A:

The egg is an ancient symbol of rebirth. Decorated ostrich eggs have been found in Africa that are around 60,000 years old; representations of ostrich eggs were crafted in gold and silver in ancient Sumeria, Egypt and the Mediterranean; and eggs have been decorated to mark the Iranian new year, Nowruz - the rebirth of the year at the time of the spring equinox - for thousands of years. 

Already used as a container in North Africa before the Bronze Age, the ostrich egg was best known in the Late Bronze Age Aegean world as a rhyton. This was an often highly decorated vessel which might sometimes have been used in religious ceremonies; ex­amples of ostrich egg rhyta are known from mainland Greece, the Aegean islands, and Cyprus

The specific Christian tradition of decorating eggs at Easter time started among early Christians in Mesopotamia, some time before the First Council of Nicaea in 325 CE. Easter Sunday comes shortly after the end of Lent, a period of fasting during which the consumption of eggs is forbidden. Once the Lenten fast is over, it is allowed to eat them again.
The first decorated Easter eggs were dyed red to represent the blood that Jesus shed at his crucifixion. This custom connected with legend concerning Mary Magdalene. According to one legend, she brought a basket of cooked eggs to share with other woman at Jesus's tomb, and when she saw the risen Christ they turned red. In another, after Christ has ascended Mary Magdalene went to the Roman emperor and greeted him with the words "Christ has risen". The emperor pointed to an egg on his table and said "Christ has no more risen than that egg is red", upon which the egg straightaway turned blood red. "Christ has risen", or "The Lord has risen", is known in Eastern churches and some Protestant churches as the Paschal greeting or Easter Acclamation. 
Red is still the main colour used to dye eggs at Easter among many Orthodox Christians. In Greece, the first red-dyed egg is sometimes placed in the home where the icons are positioned, in order to ward off evil.
Chocolate Easter eggs date to 1873, when the J S Fry chocolate company, based in Bristol, England, first marketed them.

