Q:

What are the limits to Thanatos's powers?

So I've been reading up on some old Greek stories lately, and I came across the story of Thanatos. If I'm correct, he is supposed to carry the souls of the dead to the Underworld as they died. But even in ancient times, hundreds if not thousands of people died each day. Could Thanatos really carry the souls of each of them one by one to the Underworld (I would suspect not since it would take far too long)? Did he have super speed or was something else going on?

A:

A long time ago, I read where the waning and waxing of the moonlight is from the collection of dead souls. When the moon is completely dark/full of souls, they begin to be ferried away and the Light gradually reappears. Eerie, and I still think of it from time to time when noticing the moon phases.
Just found something akin to the above, tho they think the soul is the Light. I remember a saying, "What you fear is the darkness of your own soul." So, my vote would be for the dark moon to be souls.

https://carljungdepthpsychologysite.blog/2019/07/11/the-moon-is-dead-your-soul-went-to-the-moon-to-the-preserver-of-souls/#.XXfncihKjDc

At all events, the moon is always understood as the receptacle of the
  souls of the dead.
They migrate to the moon after death, and the moon gives birth to the
  souls in the sun. She first gets quite full of dead souls—that is the
  pregnant full moon—and then she gives them to the sun, where the souls
  attain new life (a Manichean myth).

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychopomp

Psychopomps (from the Greek word ψυχοπομπός, psychopompós, literally
  meaning the "guide of souls")[1] are creatures, spirits, angels, or
  deities in many religions whose responsibility is to escort newly
  deceased souls from Earth to the afterlife. Their role is not to judge
  the deceased, but simply to guide them. Appearing frequently on
  funerary art, psychopomps have been depicted at different times and in
  different cultures as anthropomorphic entities, horses, deer, dogs,
  whip-poor-wills, ravens, crows, owls, sparrows and cuckoos. When seen
  as birds, they are often seen in huge masses, waiting outside the home
  of the dying.
Ancient religion Classical examples of a psychopomp are the ancient
  Egyptian god Anubis, the Greek ferryman Charon[1] and deities Hermes
  and Hecate, the Roman god Mercury, the Norse Valkyries, and the
  Etruscan deity Vanth.

"Thanatos is the god of death, in fact, he is Death, but he did not ferry souls to the underworld, that was Charon’s job. Thanatos was more like the Reaper, when someone’s time was up he would go to them, touch them, and kill them. he also kept people from returning to life from the underworld (like a life/death border patrol)."

