Q:

Any person/myth Moses Might Have Been Based On?

I know that Moses from the Bible is generally agreed to be a mythical figure and not a real person, especially since no historical sources from places like Egypt or the people of Sinai at the time confirm Moses' existence, but  is there any historical figure that Moses could have been based on or any previous myths that might have inspired the creation of Moses?

A:

The Mosaic myth is composed out of a multitude of older stories:

the story of the infant Moses's salvation from the Nile is based on an earlier legend of king Sargon of Akkad
the story of the parting of the Red Sea is based on Mesopotamian creation mythology
the Covenant Code (the law code in Exodus 20:22–23:33) has similarities in both content and structure with the Laws of Hammurabi
the story of Moses's flight to Midian following the murder of the Egyptian overseer is similar to the Egyptian Story of Sinuhe

The Freud hypothesis stated in his book  Der Mann Moses und die monotheistische Religion that Mozes is based on 2 historical figures, one of them a member of the court of Akhenaten, is based on no historical evidence whatsoever. From the point-of-view of scholarly consensus amongst Egyptologists, the book is a provocative novelty containing many solid scholarly citations, many undisputed facts, alongside many tantalizing speculations some of which seem likely but unprovable, while others seem unlikely or indulgent. 
In addition, Freud could not read hieroglyphs and there is no written record of anyone called Mozes in the court of Akhenaten. "Mozes" by itself is not an Egyptian name, it is only used in addition to a subject, like Toth-msi (literally "created by Toth", which in older works is rendered Tuthmoses, although there is no philological reason to do so). 
The reason many Biblical literalists persist in making this connection is twofold: 

Akhenaten is arguably the oldest instigator of a monotheistic religion in that area of the world
according to literalist backtracking based on Biblical chronology, they argue that Akhenaten was the Pharaoh of the Exodus. Other candidates include:
Dedumose II (died c. 1690 BCE)
Ahmose I (1550–1525 BCE)
Ramesses II (c. 1279–1213 BCE)
Merneptah (c. 1213–1203 BCE)
Setnakhte (c. 1189–1186 BCE)

This hypothesis thus spans a 500-year period and no records whatsoever for any of these pharaos mention anything close to an Exodus. We do know from historical records that the supposed number of Hebrews fleeing Egypt was larger than the entire Egyptian population during the Middle Kingdom.

