Q:

What do the abrahamic angels call God?

There are many names for God. (Yahweh, Adonai etc.)
By what name might the angels call God? 

A:

I fear behind this question lie the translation used... Angels do not overspeak, that said. There is reference of them here and there, but they keep their angelic mouth shut. 
Genesis 3-23/24 in king James translation

23 Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to
  till the ground from whence he was taken. 24 So he drove out the man;
  and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a
  flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of
  life.

And that is the same passage in the New World Translation:

23 With that Jehovah God expelled him from the garden of Eʹden+ to
  cultivate the ground from which he had been taken. 24  So he drove the
  man out, and he posted at the east of the garden of Eʹden the cherubs+
  and the flaming blade of a sword that was turning continuously to
  guard the way to the tree of life.

And in the Jerusalem Bible:

So Yahweh God expelled him from the garden of Eden, to till the soil from which he had been taken. 24. He banished the man, and in front of the garden of Eden he posted the great winged creatures and the fiery flashing sword, to guard the way to the tree of life.

So trying to know how they are addressing God is merely problematic, because the various translators are not agreeing between them on the name of God, far from.
That said, we have that is Tobias 12-15, I keep using King James translation only:

I am the angel Raphael, one of the seven who stand before the Lord.

Another Angel talking in Matthiew, this time he uses Holy Spirit:    

"Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary your wife, for that
  which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit; she will bear a son,
  and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from
  their sins."

Same story in Luke:

"In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a town of
  Galilee called Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph,
  of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary." And coming to
  her, he said, "Hail, Full of Grace! The Lord is with you."

In summary, there is Angelic references in the Bible but most of the time they do not talk and are either referenced or simply act as background characters. And when they do talk, they rarely use the name of God, and when they do the translators use a different name.
There is the high probability their is out there some hebraic/jewish books being more precise, but I do suspect those books would fall also in the category "depend the author".

