Q:

Why did the Romans name the planets after their gods?

Why did the Romans name the planets Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn after their gods? Or did they consider these planets those gods?

A:

The Romans were not the first and only to apply this practice. The seven classical planets (visible to the naked eye, 5 of which today are considered actual planets) were named after deities in Sumerian, Akkadian, Egyptian, and Chinese astronomy long before the Greek/Roman nomenclature.
These five planets were identified with the gods of the Babylonian pantheon as follows:

Jupiter with Marduk,
Venus with the goddess Ishtar,
Saturn with Ninurta (Ninib),
Mercury with Nabu (Nebo),
Mars with Nergal.

In Ancient Egypt, the sun and planets were associated with deities as well:

The Sun with Ra,
Mercury with Seth,
Venus with Khepri,
Mars with Horus the Red,
Jupiter with Horus who illuminates the Two Lands,
Saturn with Horus, Bull of the Sky

As for the specific naming of the planets in Latin, the strongest influence is, of course, the Greek nomenclature (which itself is influenced by Indian astronomy). The naming is an exact match for the Roman equivalents of the Greek deities except for Saturn, which the Greeks named after a Titan.

Sun – Helios: the Greek name of the Sun, the center of our solar system.
Earth – Ge (from the ancient Greek name Gaia or Gaea). Gaia was the great mother of all, creator and giver of birth to the Earth and all the Universe, the heavenly gods, the Titans, and the Giants. The gods were born from her union with Uranus (the sky), while the sea-gods were born from her union with Pontus (the sea).
Mercury – Ermis: the Greek name of the planet Mercury, which is the closest planet to the sun. It is named after the Greek God of commerce, Ermis or Hermes, who was also the messenger of the Ancient Greek gods.
Venus – Aphrodite: the Greek name of the planet Venus, which is named after Aphrodite, the goddess of Love.
Mars – Aris: the Greek name of the planet Mars, the fourth planet from the sun, also known as the Red planet. Aris or Ares was the Greek god of War.
Jupiter – Dias: the fifth planet from the sun, is the largest planet in our solar system. In Greek the name of the planet Jupiter is Dias, the Greek name of god Zeus. 
Jupiter has many moons orbiting around the planet. The largest one is Ganymede and it is named after Ganymedes, the hero of the Greek mythology.
Saturn – Kronos: the second largest planet of our system and the sixth planet from the sun. The Greek name of the planet Saturn is Kronos. The  Titan Cronus was the father of Zeus, while Saturn was the Roman God of agriculture.

A:

It is an interesting question as there are two sides to it: (1) history (2) language.
For the Mediterranean world the planets became really interesting with the spread of astrology during the Hellenistic times. It is easily seen that in classical Greece, e.g. Plato or Aristotle, just descriptive names are used: the bright one or the red one. The Romans were even less interested. Astrology came from Babylon and with the correspondence between gods already established. But that just moves back the question to the babylonians. Francesca Rochberg who is the expert on the topic writes in her The Heavenly Writing (Cambridge 2004, p.171)

Even in the cases in which the celestial bodies’ names duplicate the
  names of gods, such as is the case with the moon and sun, the
  celestial bodies cannot themselves be one and the same with the gods
  their namesakes.

There are a dozen pages discussing how a river, a wind, a mountain etc., received a proper name and was treated like a deity, a problem that has been much discussed in the early 20th. c. (Speaking of "primitive"  or "prelogical" mentality was not politically incorrect back then.) How a particular planet came to be assigned to a particular deity does not seem to have a good answer. It is obvious however that astrological discourse developed mostly by glossing mythological names.

A:

In Etymologies bk. 8 §11 "Gods of the heathens (De diis gentium)," p. 185 (PDF p. 199), St. Isidore of Seville writes:

By empty stories the pagans attempt to connect
some of the names of their gods to physical causes, and
they interpret these names as involved in the origins of
the elements. But this has been entirely made up by poets,
with the intention of enhancing their gods with certain
figures of speech, while histories reveal these gods to have
been lost and full of the infamy of shame. Indeed, when
truth leaves off, room for fiction is wide open.

and ibid. bk. 3 § 50 "The standing of stars (De statu stellarum)":

[…] The Romans […] would
point out the stars in the sky, and say that this one was
Jupiter’s and that one was Mercury’s

Thus, it seems that the mythological stories and gods came first, and they were only later applied to real physical entities, such as the sun, moon, and planets.

Homer, according to St. Thomas Aquinas Sentencia De anima lib. 3 l. 4 n. 5 [619],

calls the sun the ‘father of men’ because of the part it plays in human procreation; for man is born from man and the sun. And the sun he calls the ‘father of gods’, either following the old view that made gods of the other stars which, the astronomers tell us, are governed somehow by the sun, or following the view that certain men are divine because generated by solar influence.

