Q:

Flood myth = Maritime Voyages & Colonization Interpretation?

I am currently studying various flood myths from all around the world.
I interprete this whole story as a maritime voyage & colonization story:
The ark is simply a ship (bigger than a cockleshell; with roof/deck). 
The flood is the sea. Land drowns below the horizon (even mountains) when leaving the coast. Where was once land (around you) is now water.
The old world is destroyed by leaving it, the new world is populated by the maritime explorers. The "old world" an increasingly unpleasant place due to overpopulation etc. is a very good reason to leave it.
When you want to colonize, you take things with you that allow you to build a settlement. This also includes (small) livestock.
But my question is: 
Are there any known interpretations of the flood myth to not be a literal flood but a maritime voyage / colonization?
I searched for it, but everyone seems to take the word "flood" literal.
Does this interpretation maybe have a name I can use to search for it?

A:

I don't think this interpretation makes sense. For one thing, there are plenty of "colonization" stories where people go on ocean voyages. I can't think of a single instance where land is described as "drowning" as people move away from the coastline.

The old world is destroyed by leaving it, the new world is populated by the maritime explorers. The "old world" an increasingly unpleasant place due to overpopulation etc. is a very good reason to leave it.

You're essentially describing the biblical story of Noah. There are lots of other flood stories.

I searched for it

take a look at the book The Flood Myth by Alan Dundes. It's a collection of academic essays on flood stories from around the world. I think you will find it helpful and interesting. (I've never read it but I've heard good things about it, and I'm a fan of the author.)

My sense has always been that back in prehistory there was a single ginormous flood event that was so massive it imprinted itself on every surviving human culture, and was written into many mythologies

There are more plausible explanations for the prevalence of certain motifs across cultures.

