Q:

Which school of philosophy motivated thinking about spaces of higher dimension?

I'm trying to make a link between important mathematical breakthroughs in history and the important philosophical schools at the time. I realize that this topic is awfully broad and could be the subject of an entire book, so to simplify it a little I'd like to know which philosophy schools were probably behind great mathematical breakthroughs. 
For example, which school of philosophy could have motivated Leibniz and Newton, or Riemann to start thinking about manifolds without relying on an ambient space, or start thinking about spaces with dimensions greater than $3$?

A:

Leibniz and Newton never thought of manifolds outside of ambient space as far as I know, Newton is credited with forging the concept of absolute space, and Leibniz with reducing it to a relational fiction in the style of Aristotle. 
The most influential philosopher of science in 19-th century was Kant, specifically his "Copernican revolution" of interpreting time and space as derivative from human perception. This led to their relativization by empiricists, neo-Kantians and logical positivists after non-Euclidean geometries were discovered. Kant directly influenced the thinking of Helmholtz, Mach, Poincare and Einstein. His influence on Riemann was through Herbart, German philosopher who assumed Kant's chair at Königsberg after his death, and "was a brilliant clarifier and interpreter who sharpened several lines of thought in Kant and Fichte, making their ideas more acceptable to scientists". Other than Gauss, Riemann's mentor, Herbart is the only person mentioned by name as an influence in Riemann's famous 1854 lecture "On the Hypotheses which lie at the Bases of Geometry". 
Another mathematician who played a major role in developing ideas about multiple dimensions, and was influenced by Kant through Herbart, was Hermann Grassman, who showed that "once geometry is put into the algebraic form he advocated, the number three has no privileged role as the number of spatial dimensions". His main work Ausdehnungslehre is a cross between a mathematical work and a philosophical treatise about the nature of space, which made it very hard to understand, and delayed its appreciation. But Riemann's lecture is written in the same semi-philosophical style, although it is much more readable, and there are some textual similarities between the two. Grassmann sent a copy of Ausdehnungslehre to Gauss in 1844, and there are some  reasons to believe that Riemann also read Grassmann's 1853 paper, which was part of exchange with Helmholtz on the theory of vision.
Kant himself wrote in 1747: "The ground of the threefold dimension of space is still unknown... property of threefold dimension... is arbitrary, God could have chosen another... law [from which] extension with other properties and dimensions would have arisen. A science of all these possible kinds of space would undoubtedly be the highest enterprise which a finite understanding could undertake in the field of geometry". 
Although Kant later endorsed Euclidean geometry as a priori true, Helmholtz and Poincare found that it could easily accomodate Riemannian perspective by declaring that spatial intuitions are only precise enough for locally Euclidean assertions. They endorsed empiricist and conventionalist views of geometry respectively, both of which influenced Einstein. The same goes for Mach's ideas about inertia and relativity of motion. As another example, Bohr's Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics has Kantian flavor, and adopts conceptual schemes of logical positivism and similar philosophies.

A:

One has to decide first what exactly we call philosophy. The meaning of this term substantially changed with time. There was a time when all people doing mathematics and sciences could be called philosophers, and what they were doing could be called philosophy.
(That the scientific degree in physics and mathematics still called PhD in many countries,
is a reminder of that time).
Evidence shows that this practice only ended in the early 19-th century.
The modern meaning of "philosophy" can be roughly defined as "speculations on those matters which are not covered by exact science". So with this definition, the area of philosophy shrinks with time.
On my opinion, philosophy ends just where the science begins. For example, physics was a part of philosophy until Descartes (including him, but not including Galileo), but since the time of Newton, it is firmly science, not philosophy.
After that transition, philosophy
either stops discussing the subject, or continues, in which case its influence is usually harmful.
Examples: Aristotle's philosophy which Galileo and Kepler had to fight. Attacks of philosophers like E. During on Riemann, non-Euclidean geometry and n>3 dimensional spaces.
Attacks of philosophers like E. Mach on atomic theory and statistical mechanics, and so on.  
On the positive side I can mention Bolzano, Frege and Russell, who were probably the last mathematicians who were also called philosophers. These were the last examples in mathematics, I guess. (In physics, Einstein was apparently somewhat influenced by philosophy of Hume and perhaps Mach).  
Mathematics actually separated from philosophy earlier than other sciences: this happened probably at the time of Plato. His contemporaries like Eudoxos and Theaetetus were already mathematicians, not philosophers, when they wrote about mathematics.
Another matter is that sometimes mathematicians and physicists use the word philosophy for
the kind of speculations in their sciences which are not rigorous. Examples: Complementarity Principle (Bohr), Bloch's Principle, Continuity Principle (in mathematics), etc., or to take an older example, that "the Nature abhors the vacuum". But this is different from philosophy done by professional philosophers.

