Q:

What type of abrasive grit was used to grind lenses for telescopes?

Today the standard for fine grit is Alumina and Cerium Oxide. However, in the 1600s, the elements Al and Ce were not known.
What type of fine grit did they use to grind and polish the lenses for telescopes?
I've hunted for this online quite a lot, but cannot find a single website that talks about grit material. They talk a little about grinding machines, but I'm not at all interested in that right now. From what I gather on amateur telescope makers on YouTube, one person can grind out a lens in a day or two, and it's not back-breaking work, just time-consuming.
I understand the basic regiment of using coarse grit, then smaller grit, and eventually to the smallest finest grit possible which today is apparently Cerium Oxide. Remember that visible light is on the order of 400 nm wavelength, so ideally you should grind it down to be smooth at that size, which requires some really fine abrasive grit particles.

A:

There is an entire article devoted to your query:
From "Lens Making for Scientific Instrumentation in the Seventeenth Century" by
Silvio A. Bedini (it is behind pay-wall), Appl. Opt. 5, 687-694 (1966).

The glass blank was fastened to a muller, or handle, and held against
the turning pattern. The mullers were made of wood or hollowed stone.
One type of glue was made from an infusion of liquified yellow pitch,
resin, and finely ground clay to which was added a dram of pulverized
glass. Another glue for the same purpose consisted of melted black
Spanish pitch, sealing wax, and plaster.
Traditional abrasives were used for lens grinding and polishing.
According to Bolantio, the best abrasive was Venetian rottenstone as
it could be pulverized and levigated so that gritty particles were
reduced to a minimum. Well-purged and minutely ground emery was
normally used for polishing; white sand and tripoli were also common.
For the final polishing, the pattern was replaced by a wooden form of
the same shape. The fine abrasive was dampened and applied to a
buckskin fitted tightly over the form. ${ }^{10}$

From there, reference 10, appears to be very relevant "From an Italian 17th-century manuscript account entitled "A Treatise on Optics by Giovanni Christoforo Bolantio"
which forms part of a bound manuscript volume with the general title "Trattato Sulla Maniera per Costruire Orologij" in the author's collection.
Perhaps a very serious scholar of science history can get hold of that treatise through major world libraries. I have no idea.

A:

One of the early publications covering the topic is Pere Cherubin d'Orleans, La Dioptrique Oculaire, ou La Theorique, La Positive, et La Mechanique, de l'Oculaire Dioptrique en Toutes Ses Especes. Paris: Thomas Jolly & Simon Benard, 1671. Polishing materials are discussed on p. 353:

De La Matiere, Du Mordant
Dans le besoin, l'on ne fait pas élection particuliere, de la matiere du mordant; le sable de riviere, peut passablement servir, à former le verre, il ne dure pas neantmoins assez au travail, perdant en peu de temps sa pointe, il est trop lent en son effet. L'émeril, au contraire, es trop dur, pour le verre; & pour les platines de leton: ausquelles, il laisse une mauvaise qualité, incrustant leur superficie, de sa poussiere; qui y retenant long temps sa pointe, gaste ordinairement les verres, que l'on veut adoucir, & conduire au polir: les rayant de traits, que l'on ne peut souvent oster, sans recommencer le travail, ce qui est importun. Le grez mediocrement dur, est donc le plus propre pour ce travail; il se trouve assez communément, chez ceux qui se servent de meules à aiguiser, lesquelles se rompants souvent, leur demeurement inutiles, à autres choses. Ce grez n'a besoin d'autre preparation, que d'estre broyé en poudre, l'on en doit toûjours conserver séparément, de trois, ou quatre degrez de force: pour les employer selon la qualité du travail. On les séparera fort commodément, mettant tout le grez qui a servy, dans un grand vaisseau plein d'eau, & le mouvant bien; car le laissant un peu r'asseoir, tout le plus gros ira au fond; & alors inclinant promptement ce vaisseau, pour remettre toute cette eau dans un autre, tout le plus subtil, s'y écoulera avec l'eau; que l'on laissera entierement r'asseoir, écoulant en suite doucement l'eau, pour avoir le grez, qui sera demeuré auf fond. Ce que reїterant diverses fois, l'on aura séparément, tant de degrez de force, de ce grez; que l'on voudra. On le conservera en des vaisseaux, séparément.

Father Cherubin states that if need be, ordinary river sand could be used to grind glass, but that it is too soft and will not last long. Emery on the other hand is so hard that it causes deep scratches that are hard to polish away and may force one to start the grinding process afresh. He recommends use of a material of medium hardness in the form of broken grindstones (made from sandstone), which have no other uses and are commonly available. These are to be pulverized, and the resulting material is to be separated into three or four different classes by particle size. For this, the pulverized grindstone is vigorously stirred into water. Some time is allowed for the coarsest particles to settle and then the remaining liquid (containing smaller particles still in suspension) is quickly poured into the next vessel, where the settling process is repeated, and so on.
The next section on the same page discusses polishing, for which Father Cherubin recommends tripoli or putty powder:

Du Tripoly
Pour polir les verres déja formez, & adoucis par le mordant; l'on se peut servir de tripoly, ou de potée d'estain. Le meilleur tripoly, est celuy d'Allemagne. Mais de quelque sorte de tripoly, que l'on se serve, le plus leger, est toûjours le meilleur. L'on s'en peut servir en pierre, comme la nature le produit, lors qu'il a les bonnes qualitez; autrement, on le broyera parfaitement avec de l'Eau-de-vie, ou à defaut avec du vin blanc; & l'on en mettra une quantité ensemble, dans un vaisseau de verre, bien fermé; car en cette maniere, il se fermentera, & adoucira excellemment. Apres que ce tripoly, aura demeuré dans son vaisseau, quatre, ou cinq mois, l'on en pourra prendre, & en faire de petites masses, que l'on laissera sécher a l'ombre, pour s'en servir à sec: l'on pourra aussi s'en servir mol, & le prendre immediatement comme il est dans vaisseau.

The best tripoli is the German one, but in any case the lighter the better. If it is of good quality, it can be used as found in nature. Otherwise, it can be ground up and mixed with brandy (or, lacking that, white wine) and is then allowed to "ferment" and soften for fourth to five months inside a closed glass vessel. After that time, it can either be air-dried, or used wet straight from the jar.

