Q:

When was mercury given its name?

The Wikipedia page for mercury says that it was named after the Roman god because of his speed and mobility. When did the name mercury start to be used to designate the metal?

A:

Mercury was initially known Hydrargyros (in the times of Aristotle) and later known in its liquid state as Argenturn Vivurn translated “alive silver” or in English as “quicksilver" in the 4th century BCE.
The association of traditional metals with the planets dates already back to the 2th century CE (in a passage of Celsus preserved by Origenes [ContraCelsum, VI, 22] mercury gets associated with iron).
The first known mention of planet Mercury in association to Hydrargyros is found in a list by Stephanus of Alexandria from the 7th century: Sun-gold, Moon-silver,
Mercury-quicksilver, Venus-copper, Mars-iron, Jupiter-tin, Saturn-lead.
Tracking exactly when "mercury" became more popular than its alternative name quicksilver is hard, as one will have to search for meaning. You can look at tables of alchemical symbols where elements are always associated with some astronomical body and quicksilver is represented by ☿ (Mercury). As pointed in the comments, mercury was one of the most important alchemical elements thought to be one of the main ingredients for the philosopher's stone, which allegedly turned normal metals into gold.
The pseudo-Geber in the 13-14th century (sometimes [mis]attributed to Arabic alchemist Jabir ibn Hayyan or Geber from 9th century) in his Summa perfectionis magisterii refers to it as both mercury (Mercurio) and quicksilver (argento uiuo).
This table by Étienne François Geoffroy from 1718 of alchemical elements already uniquely refers to quicksilver  as mercure  (mercury in French).
During the Chemistry Revolution, many chemical names were standardised. In 1787 Méthode de nomenclature chimique, Antoine Lavoisier, et al fixed the name of many elements and they chose to keep only the name mercure for the liquid metal.
Englishman John Dalton, seems to have adopted the French standard. When writing a list of elements in the early 1800, he referred to the liquid metal simply as mercury. Note that in some European languages, that did not catch on (in German is still called Quecksilber).
Some sources: Otto Raubenheimer, History of mercury (1912)  and Yannis Almirantis The Paradox of the Planetary Metals (2005).

