Q:

Did the plum pudding model of the atom make any successful predictions?

Bohr’s model of the atom predicted hydrogen’s spectral emissions lines —— a huge success.
What about Thomson’s plum pudding model? Did it make any successful predictions?

A:

Yes, qualitative ones.
Thomson's model consists of a series of orbits, in each orbit a different number of electrons (less electrons for inner orbits, more for outer ones) all disposed in equally spaced intervals and traveling at high velocities. The different orbits need not be coplanar, and Thomson suggests that in fact, they will occupy different planes. All those orbital rings are encased in a sphere of positive charge such that the atom is neutral. Therefore Thomson's and Nagaoka's models are identical for the electron placement, but Nagaoka places the positive charge inside the inner orbit.
The important thing is that in Thomson's model the electron orbits are stable, therefore small perturbations of an electron give rise to an oscillating behavior with a characteristic frequency. As such each electron interacts with light (the source of perturbation) of only a given frequency (in first order perturbation theory) and Thomson's model can explain why atomic spectra are discrete. Contrast with Nagaoka's model that is not mechanically stable (although Nagaoka opens up the possibility that the instability in his model could explain $\beta$ particle emission).
In a follow-up paper (On the Number of Corpuscules in an Atom, Philosophical Magazine 6, 769-781 (1906)) Thomson uses his model to determine how many electrons each atom has. Through 3 different experiments, he concludes that the number of electrons is of the same order of the atomic weight and that the ratio of electrons and atomic weight is constant for all elements.
To summarize, Thomson's model is a mechanically stable atom that explains the spectral lines as a result of the interaction of electrons with light and that the number of electrons in an atom was of the same order as the atomic weight, so qualitative but not quantitative results. Rutherford subsequently will establish the number of electrons as half of the atomic weight (besides the nucleus containing the positive charges) and Bohr will give the correct formula for the spectral lines of Hydrogen.

