Q:

Significance of Higgs model used in Glashow-Salam-Weinberg theory

Sheldon Glashow, Abdus Salam, and Steven Weinberg propose the unification of the weak and electromagnetic interaction between elementary particles.

Glashow, Salam, and Weinberg proposed the model during 1964-1967.

They were awarded the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics for their contributions to the unification of the weak and electromagnetic

Higgs particle plays an important role for the Weinberg–Salam theory, in order to explain the gauge symmetry breaking $$SU(2)_{weak} \times U(1)_{hypercharge} \to U(1)_{electromangetism}.$$

Peter Higgs proposed the Higgs model in 1964.

(In 1964 by three groups by Robert Brout and François Englert; Peter Higgs; Gerald Guralnik, C. R. Hagen, and Tom Kibble)

But Peter Higgs and François Englert had been awarded only much later for the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physics.

So the historical timeline is

1959, Glashow, S "The renormalizability of vector meson interactions." Nucl. Phys. 10, 107.

1959, Salam, A.; Ward, J. C.. "Weak and electromagnetic interactions". Nuovo Cimento. 11 (4): 568–577.

1961, S.L. Glashow. "Partial-symmetries of weak interactions". Nuclear Physics. 22 (4): 579–588.

1964, Higgs et all work on Higgs mechanism, "Broken symmetries and the masses of gauge bosons". Physical Review Letters. 13 (16): 508–09.

1967, Weinberg work on  "A Model of Leptons". Phys. Rev. Lett. 19 (21): 1264–66

1979, Glashow, Salam, and Weinberg - Nobel Prize

2013, Higgs et all - Nobel Prize

My question: since Weinberg–Salam theory heavily relies on the Higgs mechanism and Higgs work --- why had Glashow, Salam, and Weinberg been awarded Nobel prizes (1979) much earlier than Higgs (2013)? What are the crucial ingredients in Weinberg–Salam theory independent from the Higgs model? Although that Higgs et all needs to be awarded only after the discovery of Higgs particle in CERN LHC on 8 October 2013, but Weinberg–Salam theory can be confirmed earlier (even the Higgs is not required)?
p.s. The Weinberg's weak mixing angle $\theta_W$ again requires the Higgs mechanism, even though   $\theta_W$ can be verified as a parameter.

A:

This is precisely why this question belongs to HSM.SE with both feet! Your vision of what happened is deeply misleading, possibly requiring time travel. Recall the GWS 79 prize citation:

"for their contributions to the theory of the unified weak and electromagnetic interaction between elementary particles, including, inter alia, the prediction of the weak neutral current."

Glashow's cornerstone  Electroweak unification 1961 paper does not know, or care about the 1964 Higgs work. It is mostly on requiring neutral currents for consistency. Salam and Weinberg tack the Higgs mechanism onto it as an extra bell-whistle, and it remains largely irrelevant (fine print) until 't Hooft's 1971 renormalizability work. The (badly misnamed) "Weinberg" angle does not require a Higgs model!
Glashow, as a Schwinger student, believed in some type of dynamical SSB picture, not a Higgs model. Like anybody else, he routinely used sigma models to exemplify the group theory of SSB nonlinear realizations, but, at that time, these were only models, only to be taken seriously in terms of their current and amplitude consequences.
The breathtaking achievement of GWS is the consistent realization of all extant chiral symmetries including the presence of fermion masses induced by Yukawa couplings, given short shrift in modern introductions anxious to sell the Higgs mechanism to novices.  It virtually amounts to a magic trick to distract attention.
So, no,

Higgs particle plays an important role for the Weinberg–Salam theory

is not the sine-qua-non you are making it out to be. It's nice to know the exact, original, minimal "Weinberg model" incorporating the elementary Higgs is now promoted to a full theory, beyond model; and the discovery of the remnant boson, (the Higgs boson, proposed in 1966), was a good last chance to celebrate most of the 1964 Higgsers.
But, really, with or without the elementary Higgs boson, the Higgs mechanism should have been celebrated anyway, long before, as 't Hooft's renormalizability proof made it a darling of theorists, and led to the triumph of QFT, celebrated in the 1999 NP. From that point on, a NP for the Higgsers was overdue, waiting for the cherry on the cake, the Higgs boson.

NB. Edit on crucial features beyond Higgs. Higgsless models survived right up to the discovery of the Higgs, precisely because the Higgs isn't really a live-or-die feature of the SM, but merely the simplest and actual historical option. Even now, SSB chiral gauge invariance with the suitable groups and representations is basically the standard EW theory. To put it dramatically, the elementary Higgs is the only "model" part of the SM, and that's why its confirmation took so long: the rest of the theory doesn't much care about it!

A:

It is called verification from experimental results.
The GSW theories fitted mathematically the observed particle zoo symmetries and explained the approximate symmetries seen in the data.
The Higgs model  at the time of award was not the only model for getting the results of symmetry breaking, it could be a different process  inducing the breaking , as in techincolor, where a composite particle was proposed for the higgs.
The specific higgs model used in GSW theories had a field for the Higgs, which means in quantum field theory  that an elementary  particle should exist , and it needed its discovery in order to uniquely define the Higgs mechanism with nature.
All experiments were looking for a Higgs particle , but their energy at the time was too low.The LEP accelerator just missed the mass found in LHC.

