Q:

Were ancient Romans so bad at computations before Arab numerals?

It is often said that Romans (see below) had a terrible number system, which made computations a mess. I do believe this, but I'm suspicious of the claim that nobody had better ways to do computations until Fibonacci brought Eastern techniques to Europe.
This is even more suspicious when you think how big the Roman empire was and that it featured a lot of fiscal checks (such as census), infrastructural works (hence engineering and logistics) and, above all, economic activity (can you believe greedy merchants didn't think of better ways to make calculations?).
So, were arithmetical algorithms so inefficient before Arabic numerals were adopted in Western Europe?
EDIT 1: I use Romans as a proxy for "ancient Western Europe civilization". I suppose anything known to Europeans (e.g. Greeks) in the last centuries BC and first centuries AD was known to Romans as well. Also, I assume anything known before was inherited, i.e. if Egyptians/Babylonians/Etruscan had wonderful arithmetical techniques, I doubt they got lost in history, since these are the kind of things that tend to be spread (see merchants, see what happened with Arab-Indian numerals).
EDIT 2: I'm not asking about numerals, but about techniques of computation. From the comments, I see that the two things had disjoint developments indeed.

A:

No, Romans were not at all bad at computations before Arab numerals were introduced to them. In fact, Romans had a perfectly fine way of doing computations that was every bit as good as Arabic numerals. They used a table and stones to do computations, similar to an abacus. Roman numerals were just used to record numbers, not to do long computations. Though shorter computations were, in fact, easier in the Roman system than in the Arab system. This is explained here and is a fascinating read.
Pope Sylvester II (946-1003) introduced Arabic numerals to Europe but without 0. Without 0, Arabic numerals can't compete with an abacus for computation. Thus, they didn't spread for another 200 years, until Fibonacci successfully introduced them through his book Liber Abaci and merchants and others started learning how to use them.
Even so, it took a couple of hundred years more for Europeans to make the conversion. Computations aren't easier with Arabic numerals than with an abacus, and using them for computation requires paper for those computations, so there was a good reason not to use them. One minor advantage is that when you write down the computations, there's a record you can check. It was of this reason that Arab numerals were adopted and not because the Roman system was inefficient.
 Note: Everywhere here I have used the term "Arab" numerals or system, but ideally it should be the "Hindu-Arabic" numerals or system. I used this terminology just because in the question it was referred to as Arab. 

