Q:

What was the last important scientific work written in Latin?

In a recent post on math.se, I suggested that G. Peano's Arithmetices
principia, nova methodo exposita (1889) was probably the last important scientific work written in Latin.  This work set forth the so-called Peano axioms, which are still of major importance.
I suppose there must be something published in Latin by the Vatican astronomer. Let's disqualify Vatican-related holdouts.  Other than these, is there any significant scientific or mathematical work written in Latin after 1889?

A:

This answer is a bit off because it is not about entire work written in Latin, but until 2012 (with the 'Melbourne' Code of Botanical Nomenclature), it was still required for new species of plants to be described in latin (not just the name but the full diagnosis).
As for the zoological nomenclature, it was still common to describe new species in latin until the end of the 19th century.
As far as complete works in Latin from the field of taxonomy go, the most recent ones I found are various monographies of Malpighiales genera by Franz Josef Niedenzu ranging from 1888 to 1933. The last one that contains more than just new taxa description seems to be a determination key Malpighiaceae palaeotropicae II (1924). It is however difficult to judge the significance of the work without being a botanist.

A:

Absence of evidence is poor evidence, particular when the absence is limited to Wikipedia, and shown to be false by information contained in the question itself.  But ignoring those small issues, Wikipedia has two articles:
New Latin
and
Contemporary Latin
These seem to try to include all major works in Latin for their period (though Peano 1889 is missing), and the last entry is for 1864.

A:

C. Truesdell, Solutio generalis et accurata problematum quamplurimorum de motu corporum elasticorum incomprimibilium in deformationibus valde magnis, Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis, Volume 11, Pages 106–113, January 1962.

Still getting cited in the past few years.

