Q:

What are some physicists that wrote literary works?

As usual when I see an article about asking about mathematicians, I cannot help to ask what about physics? Inspired by Literary works authored by mathematicians what are some physicist that also were involved in fiction and literature?
Please consider providing details about the author and the cited literary works, whenever possible. Please exclude popular science books.

A:

Edited from Wikipedia:
Leo Szilard (February 11, 1898 to May 30, 1964) was a Hungarian-German-American physicist and inventor. He conceived the nuclear chain reaction in 1933, patented the idea of a nuclear fission reactor in 1934, and in late 1939 wrote the letter for Albert Einstein's signature that resulted in the Manhattan Project that built the atomic bomb.
In 1949 Szilard wrote a short story titled "My Trial as a War Criminal" in which he imagined himself on trial for crimes against humanity after the United States lost a war with the Soviet Union.
Szilard published a book of short stories, The Voice of the Dolphins (1961), in which he dealt with the moral and ethical issues raised by the Cold War and his own role in the development of atomic weapons. The title story described an international biology research laboratory in Central Europe. This became reality after a meeting in 1962 with Victor F. Weisskopf, James Watson and John Kendrew. When the European Molecular Biology Laboratory was established, the library was named The Szilard Library and the library stamp features dolphins.

I'm also fairly sure I have a short story of his in an old Analog SF anthology, which may or may not have been censored as it was believed to breach secrecy laws.

A:

Sir J. C. Bose was an Indian polymath specializing in Physics. He was also a writer and composed one of the first works in Bengali science fiction.
From Wikipedia:

In 1896, Bose wrote Niruddesher Kahini (The Story of the Missing One), a short story that was later expanded and added to Abyakta (অব্যক্ত) collection in 1921 with the new title Palatak Tuphan (Runaway Cyclone).

