Q:

Books on the history of linear algebra

I'm quite desperate to understand the historical motivation and origin of all of the "geometrical" concepts of linear algebra, namely:

The concept of thinking of elements of $\mathbb R^n$ or some other vector space as points in a "space", and of subspaces as lines and planes.
The notions of norm and inner product as generalizations of length and angle.

More generally, I'm interested in any detailed histories of linear algebra, although my main motivation is still to try and get over my intense phobia of norms and inner products. I found the book The Genesis of the Abstract Group Concept very helpful with similar troubles about the motivations of group theory, but I can't find anything similar for linear algebra, and brief, superficial synopses on Wikipedia articles just aren't cutting it.

A:

Are you familiar with Michael J. Crowe's book, A History of Vector Analysis?
While I haven't read the book this article is well worth a read, and it seems to be a good summary.
Of course, vector analysis is the precursor to linear algebra, so it won't directly address your question. Crowe does discuss briefly Grassmann's Ausdehnungslehre, one of the roots of (n-dimensional) linear algebra, and the (somewhat convoluted) history of the inner product.

A:

This is specifically about the history of linear algebra, history of Matrices and determinants.

A:

From your sentence "my main motivation is still to try and get over my intense phobia of norms and inner products" I conclude that you need first of all a good book in Linear algebra itself, rather then history of linear algebra. In English, I recommend the textbook of P. Lax. There is a nice book of Dieudonne Algèbre linéaire et géométrie élémentaire (there is an English translation) which gives an exposition of high school geometry from the linear algebra point of view. Essentially this is the book which does all linear algebra in dimensions 2 and 3. That is elementary geometry, only exposed in a modern way.
On the history of linear algebra there is another book of Dieudonne, Abrege d'histoire des mathematiques, vol. I which explains genesis of these notions. 
But I have to repeat that genesis was quite complicated and convoluted, before the modern clarity and simplicity were reached. So in this particular case, I recommend NOT to follow the historical development if your problem is to understand the linear algebra itself. 
Only AFTER you overcome your "fobia of norms and inner products" you may read some of this history with a profit.
EDIT. Another good book is MR1885576 
Givental, Alexander
Linear algebra and differential equations. 
Berkeley Mathematics Lecture Notes, 11. American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI; Berkeley Center for Pure and Applied Mathematics, Berkeley, CA, 2001.
It teaches you linear algebra in dimension 2. That is the linear algebra part covers the SAME material as middle school geometry course. Only in the modern language. If you had a geometry course at school, there must be nothing unfamiliar to you in linear algebra in dimension 2.

