Q:

Seeking sources: Catholic church and the development of mathematics

I teach mathematics at a Catholic liberal arts college. This semester, I am teaching Real Analysis and I want students to complete a semester-long research project that extends beyond the course content and into relevant issues of history and philosophy. One idea I had is for students to investigate the relationship between the Catholic church and mathematics, perhaps including (but not limited to):

Some historical figure from the church who also contributed significantly to the development of mathematics 
Examples of mathematical concepts or theorems that were interpreted divinely
Some significant mathematician who was also a practicing Catholic and wrote about the relationship between these two aspects of their life
Examples of the Catholic church commenting on, or intervening in, the development of mathematics

Googling has not yielded anything particularly fruitful. I am not really interested in the interpretation of axiomatic mathematics as a reflection of divinity, because this is not especially unique to Catholicism. And I do want to stick to mathematics and not science, in general (e.g. the Galileo affair), because this is an upper-level course that is required for mathematics majors.
Main question: Can anyone suggest some examples of sources that I can suggest to any of my students who want to work on such a project? This may include books, films, blog posts, scholarly articles, any format and depth, really. What matters most is that it is highly relevant to the historical development of mathematics (not just interpreting mathematics retrospectively) and the Catholic church. (Bonus points if it's somehow related to the development of mathematical analysis and calculus, specifically!)
(Meta comment: I would like to tag this with "religion" but do not yet have the reputation. I will leave it to more frequent site-users to determine if this should be a new, valid tag, or if something more specific like "Catholicism" would be warranted, as well.)

A:

"Examples of the Catholic church commenting on, or intervening in, the development of mathematics:" Counter-reformation issues in the 17th century around transubstantiation/consubstantiation interpretation of the eucharist directly influenced attitudes toward the techniques of indivisibles that were seen as closely related to atomism and therefore opposed on doctrinal grounds by many catholic theologians based on canon 2 of the 13th Session of the Council of Trent in the preceding century. 
The said canon was a particularly doctrinaire endorsement of the pagan Aristotelian doctrine of hylomorphism.  The doctrine postulates a pseudoscientific substratum ("hylo") underpinning all forms (that's the "morph" part), or a kind of primordial undifferentiated Play-Do.  Such a speculative scheme is somewhat analogous to ether, similarly rejected by scientists in the 19th century. Meanwhile, protestants envisioned less literal interpretations (such as consubstantiation) that tolerated elements of atomism.
The result was that in catholic Italy, developments in indivisibles and the techniques leading to the emerging infinitesimal calculus came to a virtual stop whereas mostly protestant lands tolerated such mathematical activity leading to the development of the infinitesimal analysis:

en 1700, c'est le vide intégral en ce qui concerne la pratique des mathématiques nouvelles en Italie (page 183 in Robinet). 

The reference is Robinet, A. (1991) La conqu\^ete de la chaire de mathématiques de Padoue par les leibniziens. Revue d'Histoire des Sciences, 44(2), 181--201. 

le grand nombre des mathématiciens de [l'Ordre] resta jusqu'`a la fin du XVIII$^e$ si`ecle profondément attaché aux méthodes euclidiennes (page 77 in Bosmans). 

The reference is Bosmans, H. (1927) André Tacquet (S. J.) et son traité d''Arithmétique théorique et pratique.' Isis, 9(1), 66--82. 
These and related issues are discussed in detail in this 2018 publication in Foundations of Science which is also available on the arxiv. 

A:

Cauchy, who gave calculus its modern formalization (cf. Grabiner's The Origins of Cauchy's Rigorous Calculus), was a "significant mathematician who was also a practicing Catholic." From Belhoste's biography of him, p. viii:

"Truth," he wrote in 1842,
  "is a priceless treasure which, whenever we manage to acquire it, cannot bring
  us remorse and sorrow; it cannot disquiet and distress our soul. The mere
  thought of its heavenly attributes, of its divine beauty suffices to replenish us
  for all the sacrifices we may have made in discovering it. Indeed, the joy of
  heaven itself is but the full and complete possession of immortal truth."

Vol. 1, ch. 12 & 13 of Valson's biography of Cauchy are on his Christian thoughts and works. Cauchy's profession of faith is on vol. 1, pp. 173-4.
Bishop Nicole Oresme (1320-1382) (cf. his MacTutor mathematical biography) studied fractional powers, invented x-y coordinate geometry, and is part of the pre-history of calculus (cf. "III. Medieval Contributions" of Boyer's The History of the Calculus and Its Conceptual Development and ch. 2 "The Dream of Oresme" of Peter Pesic's Music and the Making of Modern Science).
See also:

Duhem, Pierre Maurice Marie. Medieval Cosmology: Theories of Infinity, Place, Time, Void, and the Plurality of Worlds. Edited and translated by Roger Ariew. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1985.

"Part I: The Two Infinities" is more mathematically oriented.

Hannam, James. God’s Philosophers: How the Medieval World Laid the Foundations of Modern Science. London: Icon Books, 2009.

references from this answer; cf. this answer

St. Thomas Aquinas on mathematics's certitude / co-naturality to the human intellect
Filosofía de las Matemáticas en Santo Tomás by José Alvarez Laso, C.M.F.

cf. its excellent Index locorum ubi S. Thomas de mathematicis agit, which collects all the references to St. Thomas where he treats of mathematics or uses mathematical examples

Bishop M.-L. Guérard des Lauriers, O.P., was a 20th century Dominican, mathematician, and philosopher of mathematics; he did his dissertation under Cartan and was classmates with Levi-Civita and André Weil.

A:

You must tell them about the book Infinitesimal: How a Dangerous Mathematical Theory Shaped the Modern World, by Amir Alexander. It's about, among other things, how the Jesuit priests stopped the progress of Infinitesimal Calculus in Italy because the foundations of the subject were shaky at the time (to say the least).
Perhaps that you might also mention the fact that the Big Bang theory is due to a catholic priest, who was also a physicist, Georges Lemaître.

