Q:

Why statistical moments are called moments?

According to the Jeff Miller's Earliest Known Uses of the Words of Mathematics "Moment was taken into Statistics from Mechanics by Karl Pearson when he treated the frequency-curve (or observation curve) as the sheet enclosed by the curve and the horizontal axis. See his "Asymmetrical Frequency Curves," Nature October 26th, 1893: "Now the center of gravity of the observation curve is found at once, also its area and its first four moments by easy calculation."
This implies that the term moment was taken from mechanics. On the other hand, a Wikipedia reference Robertson, D.G.E.; Caldwell, G.E.; Hamill, J.; Kamen, G.; and Whittlesey, S.N. (2004) Research Methods in Biomechanics. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics Publ., p. 285 says that the concept of moments was taken from mathematics
I was wondering about the analogy of mechanical moment (force into the distance) with the statistical moment. What would be a mechanical analog of the zeroth moment (area), first moment (center of gravity), and second moment (variance) or there is none? Thanks.

A:

This seems to depend on who you call a statistician, mathematician, or mechanician. Certainly Pearson sounds like he’s using, as a matter of course, a term also found in e.g. Stieltjes (1894, p. 48; 1885), Wittenbauer (1881), Reye (1870), Poinsot (1806), Euler (1752, p. 192), etc.
I hadn’t heard of Commandino (1565): it would be interesting to see what Greek word he translated into moment[um] — and whether it was from Archimedes or Pappus.
(Mechanical versions of 0th and 2nd moment are total mass and moment of inertia.)

A:

The Oxford English Dictionary shows moment of a force appearing in 1830 in A Treatise on Mechanics by Henry Kater and Dionysius Lardner.   
So perhaps it is reasonable to guess that Stieltjes and/or Pearson took the term from mechanics.

A:

Moments in mechanics and statistics are defined by the same formula:
$$\int x \rho(x)dx,$$
for the first moment. In mechanics, $x$ is distance, and $\rho$ is the mass density. In statistics, $x$ is anything (whatever your random variable represents) and $\rho$ is the probability density. So it is not surprising that the name is the same. Moments in mechanics were of course considered much earlier (since Archimedes at least). 

