Q:

Discovery of zero

I have read at many places that zero was discovered by Aryabhata but when i was discussing this with my mathematics teacher he told me that zero had already been discovered before Aryabhata and it was also used by Euclid. Aryabhata just made Asians aware of it.
So my question is

Did Aryabhata discover zero?
If no then who discovered Zero?

I have read this post but it doesn't tell which mathematician first discovered  that there is 0 in number system. 

A:

The first evidence of zero is from the Sumerian culture in Mesopotamia, some 5000 years ago (source: Robert Kaplan, The Nothing that is: a natural History of Zero).
It is interesting to note that different cultures discovered the concept of "zero" independently. The Babylonians, the Mayans, the Chinese and the Hindus all introduced symbols for zero. They are e.g. shown in this article on the origin of zero.
Our symbol for zero has its origin in India in the fifth century (where it was written as a dot), from where it spread to Cambodia at the end of the 7th century, and then to China and the Islamic countries in the 8th century. It reached western Europe in the 12th century. The open circle symbol for zero is originally from China.

A:

Like with many other inventions, this did not happen once, suddenly at a specific time.
The idea gradually evolved. I am not sure about Euclid but a "zero" (place holder) is occasionally found in Ptolemy. However the use is not systematic and it does not have the modern shape. Other people used space for the same purpose.  

A:

Answering your first question, it was not Aryabhata. It was rather Brahmagupta and that too for first time publishing the rules governing zero. 
I see three aspects about the question,

Concept of '0'
'0' as a Symbol/placeholder
Word 'Zero' for the symbol '0'

As already answered by @Felix the concept itself was discovered across different cultures including Babylonians, Mayans, Chinese, Hindus and many other.
When it comes to using '0' as a symbol. Wikipedia states that,

In AD 976 the Persian encyclopedist Muhammad ibn Ahmad al-Khwarizmi, in his "Keys of the Sciences", remarked that if, in a calculation, no number appears in the place of tens, then a little circle should be used "to keep the rows". This circle was called صفر (ṣifr, "empty") in Arabic language. That was the earliest mention of the name ṣifr that eventually became zero.[8]

The same Wikipedia article says that the Arabic word 'sifr' became 'zefiro' in Italian and then later 'zero' in Venetian.

