Q:

Best books/papers on Newton and his mathematical physics

In your opinion, what are some of the best books/papers on Newton and his work that accurately cover the connections between his geometric proofs in the Principia and his development of the calculus and his disputes with others on these topics?
So far, some articles in The Cambridge Companion to Newton seem pretty good to me in addressing the interplay between Newton's calculus and his geometric proofs of physics in the Principia as well as the associated disputes on priority and philosophical approach (physical intuition versus pure algebraic manipulation). See also the intro of Needham's Visual Complex Analysis.
Edit March 2020: This question is about Newton's mathematics, but I can't resist quoting Keynes on Newton, which aptly places Newton's diverse interests into an understandable perspective:
Newton was not the first of the age of reason. He was the last of the magicians, the last of the Babylonians and Sumerians, the last great mind that looked out on the visible and intellectual world with the same eyes as those who began to build our intellectual inheritance rather less than 10,000 years ago.

A:

The standard book about Newton's life is Never at Rest by Richard Westfall.
On my opinion it is a very good book, it covers his life in great detail, and gives a general overview of his activities (not only in physics) but in astronomy, history, theology, alchemy, and as the Mint administrator. On physics, the latest English translation of Principia by Cohen (UCB Press, blue cover, not the cheaper editions!), has very comprehensive introduction and commentaries, (Introduction is about 1/3 of the total size of the book!) which covers all aspects of Principia (and Principia contains Newton's most important contributions to physics). I do not know an equally good commentaries on his Optics. 
"Newton's Principia for the common reader" by S. Chandrasekhar, written by one of the famous physicists of 20th century. This is a commentary to the first part of Principia.
" Huygens and Barrow, Newton and Hooke" by V. Arnold, is a very interesting (and very small) book  written by a prominent mathematician. It explains very much of Newton's physics for a book of such small size.
I listed only my favorite general books. There is an enormous specialized literature (books and articles) on various aspects of Newton's physics, for example, on his derivation of Kepler's laws, on his theory of the Moon, on the theory of motion in resisting medium, on tides, on optics etc. The books listed above give a good general overview.

A:

I agree with the citation of Westfall's biography of Newton, the 'Cambridge Companion' and the 1999 translation and introduction of the 'Principia'.
In addition, for the calculus and an account of the dispute about it I would suggest A R Hall's 'Philosophers at War'.
I would also cite excellent books and papers by: 
Niccolo Guicciardini (esp. books including 'Reading the Principia', 'Isaac Newton on Mathematical Certainty and Method', & papers); 
William L Harper (esp. 'Isaac Newton's Scientific Method').    
Also valuable is almost everything by I Bernard Cohen, e.g.
his earlier (1972/78) 'Introduction to Newton's Principia'.
The book on the Principia by Chandrasekhar is a strange mixture. Some parts of it can deliver great clarity and insight, even though it tends to project modern ways of thinking backwards on to a time before the concepts had yet developed. Other parts are so wrong on verifiable facts they show Chandrasekhar was telling the truth when he claimed (in the prologue) to have made "no serious attempt to enlarge my knowledge derived from the Principia by any significant collateral reading."
But Newton and his work are subjects on which a number of myths have developed (i.e. not based on evidence of primary documents, especially of Newton & his contemporaries, even contradicting the sources). Some of the myths are longstanding, even some of the better books have not been quite free of them. It's worth looking at a range of authors and at original documents whenever you can, to help tell fact from speculation, to see directly in what sort of terms Newton and his contemporaries held their discussions and argued, and identify some of the uncertainties. The published volumes of the Correspondence of Isaac Newton (7 vols) and the Mathematical Papers of Isaac Newton (8 vols) are bulky but can be found in some libraries and are well worth the discovery.

