Q:

What was the original reason physicists first believed that light must follow a geodesic?

Context: One of the key reasons Einstein first suspected space is curved by mass is due to the falling elevator thought experiment. This experiment implies that mass must curve the path of a light ray. From this, he inferred that space must be curved. But why come to that conclusion? (It could rather be for instance that space is flat and the light simply "falls" through flat space like any other object). Apparently the reason is that it was believed that light must follow a geodesic. Thus if space was flat, light would have to travel in a straight line. The thought experiment suggested light actually follows a curved path, and hence by implication, space must curved. 

What first lead physicists to believe that light must follow a geodesic, and why?

I suspect the reason may be just a logical extension of Fermat's theorem for light, but this may be entirely wrong.

A:

It is the so-called Fermat Principle in geometric optics: light chooses the path which takes it least time to travel. Since the speed of light (in the given homogeneous medium) is constant, this must be the shortest path. Later refinements tell us that it is not always shortest but anyway its length must be stationary. Which exactly means a geodesic for some metric. For empty space this is Minkowski's metric, otherwise, some other metric.
This was the simple answer. But one can give a deeper answer, if one looks at the notions of "geodesic" and "straight line" in their historic development.
Long before the invention of mathematics, people came with the notion of a straight line, the line on which light travels. (Just think of practical method of checking that a line is straight. The most basic of them just compare it with a light ray.) Mathematics is a later invention. The notion of the straight line (distilled from from observations of nature!) was axiomatized and
became a part of mathematics. The ancients also knew that a straight line minimizes distance. Calculus of variations is a still later invention, as well as the general idea of idea of geodesic. So it should not come as a surprise if in the end we obtain that light travels on geodesics:-)
All these relevant notions of mathematics developed from the original observations of light rays. This explanation depends on the point of view that our mathematics comes from the observation of nature as its final source. This point of view is not shared by everyone.

