Q:

Kronecker vs Cantor — who won?

Now set theory is taught even to kids and it is the foundation of mathematics. Can we say that Cantor won?

A:

No, Cantor did not "win", for a very simple reason: the race is not over.  Cantor may be in the lead, but there is no reason to think that Kronecker ( or somebody else ) will not be in the lead 100 or 200 years from now.  Also, it is incorrect to say that X is the foundation for mathematics.  There are multiple competitors for that title, and the best bet ( IMO) is that there is no one true "foundation" for mathematics.
P.S.  The major competitors today are Category Theory and (Homotopy) Type Theory.  There are probably others, but those two are pretty well-known.

A:

Very much so.  Today someone arguing Kronecker's position would be regarded as a crank (sort of like a finitist).  Kronecker was arguing for way more than just "constructive mathematics"; he believed things like:

There is not set containing all the subsets of an infinite set (like the integers or the rationals).
The nested interval property (that all infinite sequences of nested closed intervals have a common point) may fail (even in constructive math, this property holds for sequences given by an algorithm).
Consequently, he believed that irrational and transcendental numbers do not exist (there are constructive proofs that numbers like $\pi$ and $e$ exist, and any classical proof whose result is a negation is also valid in constructive logic, so they are transcendental).
For similar reasons, Kronecker's argument would imply that there is no set of real numbers (even if individual irrational or transcendental numbers were granted to exist).
And, in general, Kronecker would deny the existence of uncountable seets (Brouwer, for example, took for granted that the real numbers were uncountable).

So there is a long list of propositions Kronecker held to that modern constructivists don't believe; they might criticize aspects of Cantor's set theory but not the whole concept of infinite sets the way Kronecker did.

