Q:

What is the origin of the name "degeneracy" pressure and "degenerate" Fermi gas?

What is the origin of the name "degeneracy" pressure and "degenerate" Fermi gas?
I was trying to find the first paper that used the term "degenerate/degeneracy" to describe either "degeneracy" pressure or "degenerate" Fermi gas. But I failed to do so. Any help is highly appreciated!

A:

Just an informed hunch, seconding @Jon Custer's suggestion. The physics usage follows the older math usage, which signifies degeneracy as a limiting simplification which stretches a definition to an absurd, qualitatively simpler limit, such as a parabola being the degenerate limit of an ellipse with a  focal point sent to infinity. Normally, the term associates to reduction of dimension or cardinality.
In physics, the term appears to originate in the degeneracy of matrix eigenvalues, the limit when a vanishing parameter of a matrix induces two or more distinct eigenvalues to merge to a common one, shared by two or more different eigenvectors (eigenstates). The dominant operator is the QM hamiltonian, thus involving degenerate energy eigenvalues. The converse limit "breaks the degeneracy", when introduction of a non-vanishing parameter (or perturbation) distinguishes two degenerate eigenstates and assigns unequal energy eigenvalues (levels, spectral lines, etc...) to them.
By the time the Dirac distribution for fermions was discovered, the concept was broadly used in physics, and the limiting case of all states of a system allowed by the Pauli exclusion principle being full up to the Fermi surface was naturally termed a "degenerate" gas:
maximally ordered and  quite un-gas-like, with a Pauli exclusion "pressure" keeping fermions from overlapping and condensing.
Fermi's original (1926) paper, Zur Quantelung des idealen einatomigen Gases,  ZfPhys 36 902–912 thus  utilizes the term Entartung (degeneracy).
Note added @Consigliere ZARF 's appreciated comment reminds us the term was already current in the old quantum theory
(Sommerfeld 1921) to indicate "limiting case", and, before him, K Schwarzschild p550  §3 , (1916) "Zur quantenhypothese" Sitz ber Preuss Akad Wiss (Berlin), 548-568.

