Q:

Why did Einstein help in the development of the Quantum theory if he didn't agree with it?

I read the book "A Brief History of Time" By Stephan Hawking. It states that Einstein helped scientists like Pauli etc. in the development of the quantum theory and even shared the Nobel Prize with them for his contributions, but to his dying day, didn't agree with the theory. He even made the quote:

I, for one, do not believe that He plays dice.

If he was so much against the theory, when then he helped in its development?

A:

Einstein made a number of contributions of momentous importance to quantum theory in the 'early days'. In 1905, his famous annus mirabilis, he published a paper on the photo-electric effect that laid the basis for the modern understanding of photons (i.e. quantized wavepackets). 
This was twenty years before the foundations of quantum mechanics were properly formulated by Heisenberg, Schrödinger, Dirac, Born, etc. At that time, the implications of Einstein's work were not quite clear to him, or anyone else for that matter. Another important contribution came in 1924, when Einstein ensured that Bose's work on what later became known as Bose-Einstein statistics were published in a mainstream journal. By that time, however, Einstein already worried much about the foundations of quantum mechanics and the lack of complete determinacy it presents us with.
After that, Einstein did not do much constructive work on quantum mechanics, but his continuous criticism was important in forcing the proponents of quantum mechanics to give shape to their ideas, and consider how they apply in complicated situations. The most famous instance of this occurring is the Fifth Solvay Conference in 1927, when Einstein went head-to-head with Niels Bohr, proposing a number of 'inconsistencies' of the Heisenberg principle, with Bohr coming up with a refutation time and again. 
I will not give a serious account of Einstein's later work on the EPR paradox; I think the answer by Logan Maingi already addresses this sufficiently. In conclusion, I would like to point out that most of Einstein's constructive work on quantum theory was done before the theory was well-understood, but his importance in sharpening the minds of the inventors of quantum mechanics cannot be underestimated. I don't think it's  fair to say that Einstein was against quantum theory: He simply thought it was not the final theory.

A:

It's not true that Einstein rejected quantum mechanics completely. He acknowledged that it gave numerically accurate predictions in a wide variety of cases, as did any competent physicist by 1935. In that year, he introduced the EPR paradox, which shows that quantum mechanics doesn't respect locality in special relativity. In particular, if one considers an entangled state of two spins at spacial separation, and measures the spin of one of them, the state of the other must immediately change in order to accommodate the measurement of the first. He considered this sort of faster-than-light action at a distance to be at odds with any "reasonable definition of the nature of reality". This was his best objection to quantum mechanics as it was interpreted at the time. Of course, Einstein also did some early work on quantum mechanics before these issues were apparent to him.
Thus, Einstein chose to reject not quantum mechanics outright, but it's conventional interpretation. He favored a theory in which all physical measurements were determined, but could not all be measured. This would be a so-called hidden-variable theory, arguing that quantum mechanics was not complete and that additional local degrees of freedom exist which would give a theory that was essentially classical. However, these additional "hidden variables" couldn't hope to be measured in practice, and so quantum mechanics is what we end up seeing. This philosophical position is sometimes known as "local realism".
Local realism, while not necessary to explain any physical measurement, was still on good experimental standing until 1964. Up until that point, the prevailing view was that any quantum mechanical theory could be made into a local hidden variable theory, though no one knew exactly how. In that year, Bell derived his now-famous inequalities showing that quantum mechanics predicts smaller correlations between certain measurements than could ever be accommodated by any classical hidden variable theory. This gave rise to actual measurements which definitively showed that local hidden variables aren't what we have in nature. By that point, one had to either settle for non-local hidden variables, which wouldn't have satisfied Einstein very much, or just quantum mechanics. Einstein didn't live long enough to have to make that decision though, as he died in 1955.
So, it wasn't so much that Einstein believed quantum mechanics was incorrect. Rather, he thought it was incomplete. His later frustrations with it were more that no one had managed to figure out how to realize it with hidden variables (and few people were even trying). When he said things like "God doesn't play dice" and the like, he wasn't saying that quantum mechanics was wrong, so much as incomplete, and was upset that no one was doing what he thought was necessary to make it complete. Through the lens of history, we can see that he was wrong, but at the time this was a seemingly reasonable stance to take.

A:

A bit more about Einstein's indirect contributions to quantum theory.
In Heisenberg's autobiographical essay "Theory, Criticism, and Philosophy", in the section "Einstein on Theory and Observation", Heisenberg recounts a conversation he had with Einstein shortly after Heisenberg had proposed his version of QM (called matrix mechanics).

Einstein asked me to come to his flat and discuss the matters with him. The first thing he asked me was: "What was the philosophy underlying your kind of very strange theory? The theory looks quite nice, but what did you mean by only observable quantities?"

Here Einstein alludes to Heisenberg's claim that physics should deal only with observable quantities; this justified discarding the idea of electron trajectories. Heisenberg responded,

I felt that one should go back to those quantities which can really be observed and I also felt that this was just the kind of philosophy which he had used in relativity; because he also had abandoned absolute time... Well, he laughed at me and then he said, "But you must realize that it is completely wrong." I answered: "But why, is it not true that you have used this philosophy?" "Oh yes", he said, "I may have used it, but still it is nonsense!"
Einstein explained to me that it is really the other way around. He said, "Whether you can observe a thing or not depends on the theory which you use. It is the theory which decides what can be observed.

Heisenberg explains that this conversation set him on the train of thought which culminated in his Uncertainty Principle.
Turning to Schrödinger, in a footnote to his paper "On the Relation of the Heisenberg-Born-Jordan Quantum Mechanics to Mine", he wrote:

My theory was inspired by L. de Broglie and by brief but infinitely far-seeing remarks of A. Einstein (Berl. Ber. 1925, p.9ff)

I believe the cited paper is Einstein's second one on Bose-Einstein statistics.

