Q:

Why did India miss the Great Revolution in Maths and Science?

UPDATE: I've updated the title of the question from Why did India lag behind in discovering Maths and Science? to Why did India miss the Great Revolution in Maths and Science? after some of the answers and comments provided.
NOTE: This question lies more in the "discussion" category rather than an "objective answer" category. But bear with me. I am asking this here because I want an objective answer. Or at least some reference to some research paper which answers this question.
The Question is simply this:

India had a lot of time in her hands. They, alongwith Greece, developed a mature Philosophy in the times of BC. Everything went well for a good thousand after that (i.e. till 1000 AD). India lived a peaceful Golden age during this time where no philosophy was violently suppressed.
Enter West. They went through Dark age for those good 1000 years. But as soon as they recovered from the Dark age, they started discovering a good deal of Maths and Science in just a couple of centuries.

Now, some would argue that various crucial Maths/Science was also discovered before those times, like the contributions of Pythagoras (Greece) or Brahmagupta(India). Sure, they were good contributions but what I am talking here about is that advanced Maths which revolutionized the whole scenario. Calculus would be one such revolutionary candidate, apart from others.
PS: This question is not meant to incite any debate or hurt anyone. This is a sincere academic question.
A Few Reasons Upfront
We came up with a few answers which I would like to mention upfront:

India was always a very rich and content country, while Europe had to suffer through a lot. So, probably while India laid back, Europe HAD to discover and invent things.
India always hanged on to its religion and culture. While Europe was almost completely devastated by "The Plague" which lowered the faith of people on Church, nothing as devastating for the Indian religions/culture happened in India. After the Plague, the Science of Reason and Logic (which was already present in Europe but suppressed) rose above the Church.
Maybe there was some small but very crucial discovery which changed everything. Had it not happened, things would have been different. After that discovery, everything escalated pretty quickly in the West while Indian laid back.
The Westerners are a superior race. (I am mentioning this reason purely for the sake of mentioning all the possible options. No intention to incite any debate or hurt anyone. FYI, I am an Indian.)
In his book "The Shape of Ancient Thought", Mcevilley says that both Greek and Indian philosophies developed together and enriched each other. And both had the same amount of rationalities and irrationalities. However, there was one crucial difference: While Indian philosophies had rationality in them, they never quite cracked the code of Logic and Deduction. So, maybe this caused major difference in thinking processes of the Indians and the Westerners.
The famous Nalanda university was decimated completely and with it, perhaps, all the knowledge was gone. Several other instances also happened in India where various Mulsim invaders devastated various knowledge centers.
The West had an expansionist outlook, approach or way of life. They wanted to conquer, expand and enforce themselves. This demanded desperately innovations in technology. While India never had any such approach.

A:

India did not "lag behind". 
It was the ancient Greece, its successor Hellenistic states, and Renaissance Western Europe where Math jumped ahead.
(More precisely, one can say, one Hellenistic state:-))
India was not much different in comparison with most of the rest of the world.
The correct question would be "Why in ancient Greece and renaissance Europe mathematics
suddenly developed so much". By comparison there was almost no development in Europe in
the period from 2-nd AD to 17 century, like in the rest of the world. "Almost none" in comparison with those short periods of
intensive development.
One has to conclude that intensive development of mathematics is not a rule but a rare exception which happened only in two cultures, and took relatively short time.
The first period took essentially 300 years, and the second (modern) 400 years.
These are short periods for history.
In my opinion, the same applies to science, though I understand that many people will object.

A:

At one time, India led rather than lagged. The Indo-Arabic numerals that are now used worldwide originated in India. We count 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, ... Note that I made 0 (zero) bold. The concept of representing nothing with something is uniquely Indian. The world owes a lot, a whole lot, to India and to Brahmagupta in particular.
The real question here is why India (and also China, the middle East, pre-European Americas, and even Greece and Rome) were intellectually and  economically overtaken by the undereducated, unsophisticated, and brutal barbarians from northwestern Europe. This is perhaps a better question for the sister SE site, http://history.stackexchange.com.

A:

In the discussion of how different cultures developed mathematics, it is important to remember that patterns of cultural exchange influenced this development. Mathematics did not just independently pop up in Greece, then India, then Europe; rather, the legacy of mathematics was inherited, refined, and passed on to descendants and neighbors in mostly continuous fashion, and it is in this sort of context that one should view the history of Indian mathematics.
For much of ancient history India did not at all "lag behind" its western contemporaries. Besides the invention of zero, Indian mathematicians independently discovered the Pythagorean theorem, the series expansions of the trigonometric functions, the quadratic formula, several theorems in geometry, and more.
If any culture could lay claim to the title of "foremost in mathematics" before the advent of calculus per Newton and Leibniz, it would be the Muslim world. The golden age of Muslim civilization saw numerous advances in mathematics and the true rise of a symbolic calculus. All of this was aided by the fact that Muslim scholars had the works of the Greeks and Egyptians to draw from, and also were in contact with the work of the Indians.
Europe around this time was somewhat mathematically bankrupt. The legacy of the Greeks had long passed by the end of the first millenium CE, and the Romans were only ever interested in practical mathematics. Quoth C. Edwards, on Cicero's restoration of the tomb of Archimedes in Syracuse: "The Romans had so little interest in pure mathematics that this action by Cicero was probably the greatest single contribution of any Roman to the history of mathematics."
But as we approach the Rennaisance years there was an increase in communication and trade between Europe and the Muslim world, and with this Europeans catch up quickly in their mathematical knowledge. Moreover, this coincides with many other important advances in European science and technology, the printing press being one of the more notable ones. It is important to consider that the Europeans only got wide access to Euclid around this time - until this time it had remained with the Muslim scholars in its original Greek (with Ptolemy's commentary) and its Arabic translation. One should also consider the enlargement of the European economy and the Age of Discovery in this time period.
A lot of European mathematics around this time was practically motivated - Napier's invention of the logarithm, Fermat's work on optics, Pascal's work on probability, etc. The highlight, of course, is the invention of calculus by Newton and Leibniz (though preceding mathematicians, like Archimedes and Fermat, had already hinted at several notions like the derivative or integral), following which European mathematics and science exploded in sophistication. As to why "pure" mathematics exploded likewise...who knows? I haven't the foggiest why Fermat was so motivated to do number theory, though surely he found it vastly entertaining.
As to why so little of this explosion made its way back to the Muslim world, who knows? But it's not hard to imagine why India never got to see the European advances - with the Ottoman Empire standing in the way, India was in extremely infrequent contact with the Europeans, and what contact they did have was largely mercantile, not scholarly. And unfortunately, much of the later contact between the Indians and the Europeans was of an exploitative or colonial nature - hardly a breeding ground for intellectual exchange.

