Q:

What exactly did Lagrange do, historically?

I'm tying to understand, historically, what lead to Lagrangian mechanics (LM). What did Lagrange actually do?
In the time (year 1788), when Lagrange published his work (that we nowadays call "Lagrangian mechanics") the term "energy" was not known. It slowly developed in the next 60 years after Lagrange's work. However, in modern times we say that $L = T - V$ is the difference between two energies, then do some derivation magic and get equations of motions for particles (or density fields).
Today, LM is also often introduced in a way that claims that Newton laws are not optimal because they are so hard to solve because Newton did not know about "generalized coordinates". But surely Isaac Newton was smart enough to express $x = r \sin(\phi)$ or something similar in his times already. So, this approach to introduce LM also only fits if you already know the result of LM. (And even if Newton really did not know to use other coordinates than $x$, $y$ and $z$: you still can do this, today, without using LM explicitly)
So, what did Lagrange actually do in his original works? What problem did he tried to solve? And what did he call his resulting variables, if not "energy"?

A:

I recently came across an article that helped me put Lagrange's work in a very interesting perspective:
Author: Craig Fraser (historian of science)
Subject: d'Alembert's Traité de Dynamique
http://homes.chass.utoronto.ca/~cfraser/Dalembert.pdf
http://homes.chass.utoronto.ca/~cfraser/D%27Alembert2.pdf
Craig Fraser mentions: in the time of Euler, d'Alembert, etc. the way that differential calculus was used was significantly different from the modern use. The application of differential calculus was very much tied up in geometric interpretation. As I understand it: wherever a theorem was stated and proved a diagram was an essential part of the statement/proof.
As I understand it: part of Lagrange's research programme was to reformulate mathematics so as to completely remove any dependence on diagrams. As I understand it: the title of his main work: "Mecanique Analytique" refers to that. All theorems are stated purely in the from of formulas, no dependence on geometric interpretation.

It's not that prior to Lagrange generalized coordinates were not used at all. Specific problems were solved with ingenious methods, that in retrospect can be recognized using a form of generalized coordinates. But that was on a case-by-case basis. My understanding is that Lagrange made usage of generalized coordinates systematic.
About energy:
We have that Lagrange used the energy concept systematically, and that he could show that this energy mechanics reproduces the newtonian formulation. Many authors write that to that end Lagrange used something they refer to as d'Alembert's principle. However, it could be that Lagrange attributed to d'Alembert something that was more Lagrange's interpretation.
There can be no doubt that Lagrange did have a demonstration of equivalence of newtonian formulation and energy mechanics. To my understanding: that demonstration did not use (at least not explicitly), the theorem that today is known as the Work-Energy theorem.
(There is a derivation of the Work-Energy theorem from F=ma by me on physics.stackexchange.)
A translation of 'Mecanique Analytique' is available on archive.org
Analytic mechanics
(Among the download options there is an option to download as .pdf file.)

