Q:

When $1$ wasn't really a number in Greece

I'm reading "Professor Stewart's Incredible Numbers," by Ian Stewart and in there it is claimed that

In early Greece, the list of numbers started $2, 3, 4,$ and so on: $1$ was special, not "really" a number. Later, when this convention started to look really silly, $1$ was deemed to be a number as well.

This is new to me. What evidence is there of this and when did the change occur?

A:

Euclid's Elements Book VII:

Definition 1: A unit is that by virtue of which each of the things that exist is called one.
Definition 2: A number is a multitude composed of units.

See also: Aristotle on unit (monas) and number (arithmos) and  Metaphysics, Book N, 1088:

"One" evidently means a measure. And in every case it is some underlying
thing with a distinct nature of its own [...] And this is reasonable; for the one means the measure of some plurality, and number means a measured plurality
and a plurality of measures. Thus it is natural that one is not a number; for the measure is not measures, but both the measure and the one are starting-points.

These speculations affect the "theory of numbers" of Pythagorean origin and not the everyday counting practice; see Plato, Republic, Book 7, 525a, with the distinction between the "science of arithmetic" (ἀριθμητική) and the "art of calculation" (λογιστική).

A:

The opening words of the Platonic dialogue Timaeus are:

Σωκράτης:εἷς, δύο, τρεῖς: ὁ δὲ δὴ τέταρτος ἡμῖν, ὦ φίλε Τίμαιε, ποῦ τῶν χθὲς μὲν δαιτυμόνων, τὰ νῦν δὲ ἑστιατόρων;

Socrates:
One, two, three, — but where, my dear Timaeus, is the fourth of our guests of yesterday, and our hosts of today?

clearly showing that the word εἷς "one" was used for counting in the same way as all other positive integers.
If at some point later on (some) Greek mathematicians accorded a special status to the number $1$, I would be tempted to compare this to a modern discussion of whether $0$ is or is not to be included in the natural numbers -- or whether the zero ring is an integral domain or not. It is a technicality, of the sort that only becomes meaningful once one has run into the necessity of "constructing" objects that have already been understood on a more intuitive level.
To be sure, there seems to be a certain attraction to the statement as presented by Ian Stewart: it is intriguing to consider the possibility that the Greeks somehow thought "differently" about numbers than we do. It is a statement that borders on the unprovable. Heidegger is even more outrageous, writing somewhere (in "Modern Science, Metaphysics, and Mathematics", which is reprinted in the "Basic Writings" collection) that the Greeks didn't even consider 2 to be a number: since 1 is the unit, and 2 is only ever a "pair", and not a collection of "two" separate objects. Only when the number three is first encountered, does the concept of number really start to shine forth -- or so the the little magician from Messkirch would have it. It sounds good, but I have yet to be convinced that there is more to it than idle speculation.

