Q:

Who first distinguished planets from the stars?

This is a pretty straightforward question, when the first observations of the night sky were being made, who was the first person to suggest that a planet, say Mars, was not a star, in the sense that their physical compositions were different? I thought Tycho Brahe, but he lived in the 16th century, whilst a large part of such observations was made in ancient Greece, so could it be someone else?

A:

We can try to find the necessary informations browsing some History of Astronomy books, like :

Anton Pannekoek, A History of Astronomy (1961, original ed : 1961)
Christopher Linton, From Eudoxus to Einstein A History of Mathematical Astronomy (2004)

and the "classical" studies of Otto Neugebauer on ancient science and astronomy, mainly : 

Otto Neugebauer, The Exact Sciences in Antiquity (2nd ed, 1957).

I think that it is necessary to separate at least three different "stages" : 
(i) the "planets" have irregular motions (the retrograde ones) compared to the movement of the "fixed stars".
It is due to Babylonian astronomy; see Lipton, page  : 

Ancient astronomers were also aware that five of the star-like objects in
  the sky changed their position relative to the other stars. These five objects –
  now named after the Roman gods Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn –
  are the planets, from the Greek for ‘wanderer’. Careful observations of these
  objects reveal that, like the Sun, as well as participating in the daily rotation of
  the heavens, they, too, move around the celestial sphere though with differing
  periods, and also that while they move predominantly in the same direction as the
  Sun – from west to east – they sometimes switch back and, for a time, move from
  east to west in so-called retrograde motions. [...] The planets also remain close to the ecliptic, the maximum deviation for any of them being 8◦, and thus all the wandering heavenly bodies can be found within a strip on the celestial sphere 16◦ across centred on the ecliptic. This strip,therefore, is very important, and is known as the zodiac and was divided by the Babylonians into twelve equal parts: the signs of the zodiac. 

Despite their astronomical and mathematical ability, it seems to me that their is no trace of "physical" Babylonian theorie regerding the nature of "celestial objects".
(ii) some planet, like the Moon, does not shine by his own light (compared to the Sun and the stars); see Pannekoek, page 100 :

[the pre-socratic philosopher] Anaxagoas of Clazomenae (c.500-428 BC) [...] was the first to state clearly that the moon shines by the light it receives from the sun and that lunar eclipses occur when the earth (or another dark body) intercepts the sun's light.

See also Lipton, page 21 :

He [Anaxagoras] was the first to think of the seven wandering heavenly bodies in the order Sun, Moon, followed by the five other planets, an arrangement adopted by a number of later astronomers.

(iii) The last stage is the understanding of the "physical" difference between the fixed stars and others "celestial objects", like the planets and the comets.
This process occurred during the Renaissance, starting with the physical-cosmological debate of the 1580s, stimulated by the apparition of a nova in Cassiopeia in 1572, the comets of 1577, 1580, 1582 and 1585, and followed by the nova of 1604.
See :

Miguel A.Granada, Adam Mosley, Nicholas Jardine Christoph Rothmann's Discourse on the Comet of 1585 (2014)
Patrick Boner, Change and Continuity in Early Modern Cosmology (2011).

This debate culminated with Galileo's telescopic observation of the moon and of the phases of Venus (1610), and of the sunspots (1612)  :

Galileo Galilei & Christoph Scheiner, On Sunspot (translated and edited by Eileen Reeves & Albert Van Helden - 2010).

A:

I'm not an expert in the field, but I'll give it a go. Unfortunately, my only source is wikipedia, since I learned most of these things from encyclopedias years ago. 
The distinction was certainly made centuries before Tycho Brahe. My humble research hasn't been able to exactly pin down who were the first to observe the difference, but I'd bet Babylonians were already aware of it. In this wikipedia article, we can read:

The oldest significant astronomical text that we possess is Tablet 63 of the Enūma Anu Enlil, the Venus tablet of Ammi-saduqa, which lists the first and last visible risings of Venus over a period of about 21 years and is the earliest evidence that the phenomena of a planet were recognized as periodic. The MUL.APIN, contains catalogues of stars and constellations as well as schemes for predicting heliacal risings and the settings of the planets, lengths of daylight measured by a water clock, gnomon, shadows, and intercalations. 

Which strongly suggests that Babylonians knew that there two different luminious objects in the night sky: planets and fixed stars.
The word planet comes from greek πλανήτης, which means wandering (or errant, don't know which word is better). This is evidence of the greeks knowing about the difference, which is confirmed in the (very complete) fixed star Wikipedia article, where we particularly read:

The phrase [fixed star or stellae fixae] originated in classical antiquity, when astronomers and natural philosophers divided the lights in the sky into two groups. One group contained the fixed stars, which appear to rise and set but keep the same relative arrangement over time. The other group contained the naked eye planets, which they called wandering stars.

Conclusion: Even though evidence strongly suggests Babylonians were already aware of the difference around 1000 BC, when the Enuma anu enlil was written, we can be sure the differentiation was made sometime between this date and classical antiquity, which ended around 100 BC.

