Q:

What was the appeal of numerical analysis before computers?

I'm currently doing a numerical analysis course, and it seems many of the techniques were developed by mathematicians, such as Euler and Newton, who lived before the age of the computer. Why were these mathematicians interested in numerical analysis and what use did it have before computers?
I have a vague idea of some uses it may have, but I still struggle to understand why such great mathematicians would choose to research numerical analysis instead of remaining focused on pure mathematics.

A:

When you apply mathematics to the real world this requires a lot of calculation.
Astronomy is the oldest science which applied mathematics on a large scale.
Then comes physics, chemistry, material sciences and all other sciences and engineering applications. They always required a lot of numerical analysis.
The question is actually very strange: it was evidently MORE reasons for mathematicians to work on numerical methods BEFORE the computers spread than after their spread. Because all calculations had to be made by hand. So this was very time and labor consuming. It is exactly for this reason people were working hard to invent effective algorithms.
For example, when Kepler learned about logarithms he said that "this invention
increased the life time of astronomers by a factor of 100".
As late as in 1940 Cornelius Lanczos invented the famous algorithm which is called the "Fast Fourier Transform". In the introduction to his paper
(joint with his CHEMISTRY PhD student Danielson) he says: "One could use
an expensive harmonic analyser, but we found a method which permits to do this calculation by hand..." (Harmonic analyser is a very sophisticated analog computer designed to do just one task: Fourier expansion. These things were custom made and indeed enormously expensive).
Until the late 1970s there was a profession "navigator". Each long distance airplane and each ocean going ship had (at least) one. The main job of this person was calculations (by hand, using tables, and other aids). Invention of
electronic calculator did not eliminate the profession but changed it dramatically. Only the spread of satellite navigation systems+computers eliminated it.
I did not even mention military applications, which were second only to astronomy and navigation in importance.

A:

I am not a historian but I propose first "Astronomy" as the answer to your question.  The study of planetary motions and seasons was essential for a variety of reasons (agriculture and religion come to mind).
Next, "Navigation": the use of accurate tables (particularly multiplication tables) was essential for good navigation, and this entailed laborious calculations (mostly using spherical geometry).
Finally, "Money".  The calculation of interest and mortgages is rumoured to be the motivation for Euler introducing "e" as the limit of receiving interest over an ever-larger numbers of ever-smaller intervals.

A:

It is striking to me that someone in the 21st century questions why people who had to calculate by hand were motivated to discover numerical algorithms. Let's see, imagine it is the early 1700s and you want to find the value of the sum of $1/n^2$ for $n = 1,2,3,\ldots$ (this was an unsolved problem for about 90 years). Of course it helps to get an idea of what the answer might be before trying to derive it carefully. So you want a numerical estimate, say to 5 decimal places. You can't do that by hand just from summing the series: it takes over 5000 terms in the series to get within .00001 of the value of the full series. But if you are Euler, you develop (what came to be called) the Euler-Maclaurin summation formula that allows you to estimate the series to over 10 decimal places using just the first 10 terms of the series plus a few correction terms in that summation formula. Can you appreciate that this might be a useful achievement?

