Q:

Who gets credit for the real numbers?

If Simon Stevin already pioneered the unending decimal representation for every number (rational, surd, etc.) at the end of the 16th century, why do Cantor and Dedekind (who certainly gave a more detailed account) routinely get credit for the real numbers? 
Stevin did some detailed work (rather than vague general ideas) with unending decimals, including a proof of the intermediate value theorem for polynomials. Newton was in fact inspired by infinite decimals to introduce his general theory of power series.
An interesting point was raised in an answer by Peter Diehr. The so-called Archimedean property (which is one of the defining characteristics of the real number field; though of course it does not suffice to characterize them as the rationals also satisfy it) was considered by authors like Euclid (Elements V.4) considerably earlier. However as far as giving an actual construction (rather than axiomatic definition) Stevin seems to have been the first.
Note 1. To clarify, Stevin developed specific notation for decimals (more complicated than the one we use today) and did actual technical work with them rather than merely envisioning their possibility, unlike some of his predecessors.
Note 2. One useful source for this is Malet, Antoni. Renaissance notions of number and magnitude. Historia Math.  33  (2006),  no. 1, 63–81. 
Note 3. As Malet notes, "Stevin does not justify his definition" which identifies number and "quantity of anything" because to him the identification is obvious, and the implementation of number is his unending decimals. This was an appropriate move indeed since we know today that the Cantor-Dedekind postulate identifying the number line and the line in physical space is untenable based on what modern physics teaches us; similar remarks apply to magnitude/quantity. Stevin of course was not aware of "transcendental" numbers but no such knowledge is required in order to define the real numbers by means of unending decimals; namely this could have been done even if Liouville did not prove the existence of transcendental numbers.
Note 4. I should clarify that Stevin dealt with unending decimals in his book l"Arithmetique rather than the more practically-oriented De Thiende meant to teach students to work with decimals (of course, finite ones).
Note 5. As far as using the term real to describe the numbers Stevin was concerned with, it should be clarified that the first one to describe the common numbers as real may have been Descartes and at any rate this usage is later than Stevin. On the other hand, if we talk about representing common numbers (including both rational and not so), Stevin not only speculated about the possibility of a representation scheme using decimals, but (unlike some of his predecessors) developed a specific notation (though different from what we use today) and moreover did work with this notation. 
Note 6. Cantor thought that Cauchy Completeness (CC) was sufficient to characterize the real numbers axiomatically. Today we know this is not the case, as one also needs the Archimedean property. I found out recently that Dedekind was convinced he had a proof of the existence of an infinite set; see here. Do these misconceptions by Cantor and Dedekind indicate a shortcoming of the constructions of the real numbers they proposed? Hardly so. Stevin's approach to representing all common numbers by unending decimals similarly could not be held at fault because Stevin was not aware of certain future developments.

A:

Many people get credit, because this was a long story beginning in the ancient Greece. Euclid has a theory of proportions (based on earlier research) which is equivalent to modern theory of real numbers. Infinite decimal expansions were gradually introduced since 17th century (Napier, Stevin), and the modern theories are due to Cantor and Dedekind. So the development took 2000 years, and it is impossible to credit one person.

A:

The Archimedean property as it is called, was used as an axiom by Archimedes, and he credited Eudoxus of Cnidus, who predates Euclid; also see this.
In Section 7: Stevin, Malet says: 
In fact Stevin does not justify his first definition (“Number is that by which one can tell the quantity of anything”)
So it appears that, like Archimedes, Simon Stevin assumes that every point of a line corresponds to a distance from its origin; that is, magnitudes correspond to points of the line.  The nice mathematical distinctions that appear in the 19th century which sort out the details of the Real numbers, are not important to Stevin; what is important is that the decimal notation provides a convenient method for recording these magnitudes. 
His work was intended to teach students how to work with decimal numbers. Since even the concept of transcendental numbers does not appear until the 19th century, I don't see how any earlier work could be cited as referring to the Real numbers, except as an axiom.
For reference: Archimedes' Axiom  and Archimedean axiom

A:

I've only recently begun reading on the subject of the history of mathematics, and my readings are currently limited to a single text; Boyer's A History of Mathematics.  However, according to Boyer, and supported by the wikipedia entry for Simon Stevin, I believe your claim that Stevin dealt with "all" real numbers, "(rational, surd, etc.)", is an overreach. 
Quoting Boyer :

Viète, ... , in 1579 had urged the replacement of sexagesimal fractions by decimal fractions.  In 1585 an even stronger plea for the use of ten-scale fractions, as well as integers, was made by the leading mathematician in the Low Countries, Simon Stevin of Bruges.

This appears to stop short of claim that Stevin's work was conceptually embracing all real numbers.  The linked paper by Malet makes the clear claim that Stevin also considered (some) irrational numbers :

That “any root whatsoever is number” [Stevin, 1585, 8] is also a consequence of identifying numbers and measures

Thus, according to Malet, Stevin does consider algebraic numbers, but again this stops short of claiming that Stevin was in possession of the correct notion of "all real numbers".  In other words, although we know now that all real numbers can be represented in this way, it is not clear that Stevin was aware of the true and correct nature of the real numbers and their different types.  Perhaps this provides some explanation for why Stevin does not get full credit for the real numbers.
As final point, it may also be worth mentioning that Boyer notes :

It is clear that Stevin was in no sense the inventor of decimal fractions, nor was he the first systematic user of them.  More than incidental use of decimal fractions is found in ancient China, in medieval Arabia, and in Renaissance Europe; by the time of Viète's forthright advocacy of decimal fractions in 1579 they were generally accepted by mathematicians on the frontiers of research.  Among the common people, however, and even among mathematical practitioners, decimal fractions became widely known only when Stevin undertook to explain the system in full elementary detail.

