Q:

What is the origin of "law of excluded middle"?

Reading an article I have stumbled across the concept of law of excluded middle. 
Wikipedia mentions that original expression is principium tertii exclusi which literally translates to principle of the excluded third. My native language (Romanian) also uses the literally translation.
I am wondering where does middle come from.
Question: What is the origin of "law of excluded middle"? I specifically refer to middle instead of third.

A:

OED attests 'excluded middle, third' (in the entry for excluded, adj., .... b.) from 1849, in William Thomson's An Outline of the Necessary Laws of Thought. Although OED does not give a quote, merely the citation, the relevant text is this: 

3d Criterion. The principle of the middle being excluded, (lex exclusi medii.) "Either a given judgement must be true of any subject, or its contradictory; there is no middle course."

I did not find any earlier work containing the phrase lex exclusi medii. Some earlier works contain the phrase "excluded third". Among them, the 1815 Encyclopaedia Londinensis mentions the "excluded third" (top of second column): 

The Principle of the Excluded Third, (principium exclusi medii inter duo contradictoria,) upon which the (logical) necessity of a Knowledge is grounded; namely, that we must judge so, and not otherwise; i.e. that the opposite is false; for Apodictical Judgements.

Together, the context of these uses suggests that early appearances in English of both "the principle of the excluded third" and "the principle of the excluded middle" were associated with the Latin exclusi medii, rather than the Latin exclusi tertii.
The account represented in the 1815 Encyclopaedia Londinensis is drawn from an 1813 translation of Immanuel Kant's Logic by Thomas Wirgman (see page 3, op. cit.). The Latin rendering of the fuller phrase, principium exclusi medii inter duo contradictoria, may have been drawn from Kant directly, or from a Latin translation of Kant.

