Q:

Why is umbral calculus not used more widely?

Recently I have encountered the so-called Umbral calculus. The main idea of this field is to treat indices as exponents, applying simpler techniques available to exponents and switching everything back when the work is done. The Wikipedia article on Umbral calculus states that

These techniques were introduced by John Blissard (1861) and are sometimes called Blissard's symbolic method. They are often attributed to Édouard Lucas (or James Joseph Sylvester), who used the technique extensively.

Further there is a brief historical outline of the development of this technique and even a look on the modern usage of Umbral calculus. Hence I am quite fascinated by this topic I would like to learn more about it; especially its applications for proofs. 
First of all the Wikipedia side offers a proof of the derivatives of the Bernoulli polynomials by using Umbral calculus. Furthermore I am aware of this question on MSE which was answered by Tom Copeland with some interesting examples. Furthermore within this answer on MSE the user Count Iblis provided an elegant proof of Ramanujan's Master Theorem also using umbral calculus. Anyway I have not found that much further one MSE or somewhere else at first sight.
Refering to the quote from Wikipedia I was not able to find some proofs by neither É. Lucas nor by J. J. Sylvester actually  using this field of mathematics. By saying "I was not able to find some proofs" I mean I have found nothing detached from a book of something similiar. It seems like Umbral calculus does not gain that much attention overall.

What I would like to know: $(1)$ Are you aware of proofs using Umbral calculus beside the few I mentioned? I would be interested in some historical examples - for instance the first proof using this technique, some proofs by the named mathematician and other, etc. - as well as mondern examples. $(2)$ Is there a reason why it seems like there are not that much applications of this techniques? Yes, of course the possibility that a proof can be done with Umbral calculus is not that high but however I would say there are enough problems cover something so simple as indices.

Thanks in advance!

A:

This is odd, since Rota revived it there is a fairly large community of umbral enthusiasts Di Bucchianico's 1995 survey has a bibliography 506 entries long. American Mathematical Monthly has an accessible History of Blissard's Symbolic Method, with a Sketch of its Inventor's Life by E.T. Bell. Normally I would take anything written by Bell with a grain of salt, see What resources are available for lives of recent mathematicians besides E.T. Bell's Men of Mathematics? But he is a good expositor and in this case he is citing original sources.

"It sometimes happens in the history of mathematics that the credit for a particular method is commonly ascribed to another than its originator. In the interests of historical justice, such oversights should be corrected, where the
  facts are known. A conspicuous instance is the extremely useful symbolic method expounded and widely applied by Edouard Lucas [3, 5],t and usually attributed to him. The kernel of this symbolic method is described below. This representative notation [1], to use the designation of its inventor, or symbolic method, as Lucas [3, 5] called it, or umbral calculus [8, vol. 31], was fully developed in 1861 by John Blissard [1], in a mathematical journal with a wide circulation among mathematicians, fifteen years before Lucas published his first papers [3, 4] on the subject.
[1] John Blissard, Theory of Generic Equations, Quarterly Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics, vol. 4, 1861, pp. 279-305; vol. 5, 1862, pp. 58-75, 185-208. In nine further papers, ibid., vols. 5-9, Blissard gave applications of his method. He frequently contributed problems to the Educational Times.
[3] Edouard Lucas, Theorie nouvelle des nombres de Bernoulli et d'Euler, Comptes rendus de l'Academie des Sciences (Paris), vol. 83, 1876, pp. 539-541; Annali di Matematica pura ed applicata, Serie 2, vol. 8, 1877, pp. 56-79.
[4] E. Lucas et E. Catalan, Sur le calcul symbolique des nombres de Bernoulli, Nouvelle Correspondance Math6matique, vol. 2, 1876, pp. 328-336.
[5] Edouard Lucas, Theorie des Nombres, 1891, Chap. 

