Q:

Story of Grothendieck's Prime Number

There is a story about Alexander Grothendieck and the "Grothendieck Prime"  57, which goes roughly as follows (cf. this wikipedia article): 

In a mathematical conversation, someone suggested to Grothendieck
  that they should consider a particular prime number.
  “You mean an actual number?” Grothendieck
  asked. The other person replied, yes, an actual
  prime number. Grothendieck suggested, “All right, take 57.”

This quote is taken from Allyn Jackson's article "Comme Appelé du Néant—
As If Summoned from the Void:
The Life of Alexandre
Grothendieck". Jackson refers to the story as a "legend". One can argue that the story is quite believable given Grothendieck's way of thinking (David Mumford: "He (Grothendieck) doesn’t think concretely").  
Question. What (if any) is the factual basis of the story? 
For instance, when/where did it happen? (In different versions it is said to have happened during or after a Grothendieck's talk.) Did anybody hear this story from somebody present at Grothendieck's talk? 
My guess is that the story is just a legend, but I could be mistaken.
Edit: Just for the sake of completeness, here is what Georges Elencwajg had to say about this issue (extracted from my conversation with him in comments to an answer to this math.stackexchange question): 

The story is not made up: Grothendieck did make that silly blunder, in an exchange after a talk, after being asked to be more concrete by a member of the audience. Of course this doesn't change anything to the fact that Grothendieck was one of the most profound arithmeticians of the 20th century. And indeed 57 looks a bit prime for some psychological reason :-) . Conversely many mathematicians think I'm pulling their leg when I tell them that 4999 is prime! ... I've heard this story a long time ago. I think it is true but I can't prove it since, alas, most of the protagonists are dead. Anyway, this is just an amusing but quite meaningless anecdote: a genius made a lapsus linguae. So what? On the other hand I'm quite sure that Allyn Jackson can't disprove what he (strangely) calls a legend... 

Cross-posted at Mathoverflow: https://mathoverflow.net/questions/326912/story-of-grothendiecks-prime-number

A:

While it certainly does not confirm (nor refutes) Grothendieck's episode, the fact that Hermann Weyl did commit this mistake might add some 'substance' to it

The notion of prime number is of course as old and as primitive as that
  of the multiplication of natural numbers. Hence it is most surprising to find the
  distribution of primes among all natural numbers is of such a highly irregular
  and almost mysterious character. While on the whole the prime numbers
  thin out the further one gets in the sequence of numbers, wide gaps are always followed again by clusters. An old conjecture of Goldbach's maintains
  that there even come along again and again pairs of primes of the smallest
  possible difference 2, like 57 and 59.

in Weyl, H. (1951). A half-century of mathematics. The American mathematical monthly, 58(8), 523-553.

