Q:

How much of mathematics did Russell's paradox really break?

According to my quite likely wildly oversimplified understanding, a revolution occurred in the foundations of mathematics when Cantor's formulation of set theory was found to be inconsistent due to Russell's paradox, which ultimately lead to the development of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory, thus putting mathematics back on solid formal foundations.
My question is, how much of a revolution did this process cause in the rest of mathematics, outside of the formal foundations?
I can imagine two extremes, with the truth presumably lying somewhere in between. On the one hand one could imagine that a crack in the foundations would break the whole of mathematics, with most theorems even in quite applied topics needing to be re-derived along quite different lines within the new system, in a process that would take many years. On the other hand I can imagine it not really making much difference at all, with most of the higher-level results being somehow independent of the low-level stuff below them, so that the old foundations could be swapped out and new ones put in without disturbing the structures that were built on top of them.
If I had to guess, I would say it was closer to the latter, since when reasoning about higher or applied mathematics we rarely have to go right down to the axioms of set theory. But I would appreciate knowing historically how it played out.

A:

Your guess is right. Russell's paradox broke only what people considered at that time as foundations of set theory. More specifically, the logical foundation system built by Frege. Of course this was very disturbing, because many people understood that
logic and set theory is really the foundation of the whole mathematics. However it did not "invalidate" any theorems outside set theory and some closely connected areas, like the new theory of functions of the real variable. I am sure that most mathematicians, doing for example differential equations or functions of complex variable or group theory or geometry, did not care much about Russell's paradox. Soon, many theories of foundations were developed to avoid Russell's paradox and similar paradoxes. One is due to Russell himself (it is called the theory of types), another is Intuitionism. Eventually most mathematicians settled with ZF system.
Intuitionism (which later evolved to Constructive Mathematics) founded by Brouwer was the most radical attempt to save the foundations. It indeed rejected much of the classical mathematics. Discussions about Intuitionism continued well into the second half of the 20s century.
But most mathematicians working in other areas than foundations were not really very interested in these discussions.

A:

You say

[...] due to Russell's paradox [1901], which ultimately led to the development of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory, thus putting mathematics back on solid formal foundations.
My question is, how much of a revolution did this process cause in the rest of mathematics, outside of the formal foundations?

but be aware that Frege's Begriffsschrift is only form 1879! The idea of using $\forall, \exists$ is younger than the photoelectric effect and so is the line of thinking that you should actually use formal logic for mathematics in this way.
Russel's issue arose a few years after the "logic people" took a look into set theory for the first time. What would be the "solid foundations you put mathematics back on" that mathematicians in different fields would already know (much less trust and care) about?

