Q:

Did fractals already exist in the 17th century?

We can read Wikipedia:

The essential idea of fractional or fractal dimensions has a long history in mathematics that can be traced back to the 1600s, but the terms fractal and fractal dimension were coined by mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot in 1975.

I am always fascinated by fractal dimensions. Infinity in a finite plane. An infinite line (plane?) fit into a small area (volume?). It is always said that Mandelbrot invented them in 1975. Now I read that already in the 17th century they were given thought. But where and who gave it thought?

A:

The term "fractal" was coined by B. Mandelbrot (1970s).
But these objects were known to mathematicians for long time. The first definition of dimension which can take non-integer values is due to Hausdorff,
Hausdorff, F.
Dimension und äußeres Maß. (German) JFM 46.0292.01
Math. Ann. 79, 157-179 (1918).
Some first mathematical examples of what is called fractals nowadays are Weierstrass continuous nowhere differentiable function, which was discovered in 1872 but not published (Weierstrass rarely published his results, preferring to communicate them in lectures and talks).
Another early example was a Cantor-like set occurring in the work
of Schottky (some time in 1880s, before Cantor).
Julia sets were introduced independently by Fatou and Julia approximately in 1918.
Of course nobody knew that these examples have fractional dimension until
Hausdorff introduced his notion of dimension.
By the way, exact value of dimension of the graph of Weierstrass function
is still unknown.
I do not think that any sets of fractional dimension occurred in mathematics
before this example of Weierstrass. And to my knowledge no mathematician discussed fractional dimensions before Hausdorff.
Of course some fractal-like patterns that exist in the nature drew attention of physicists, see Lichtenberg figure and philosophers, for example there is a famous description
of an (imaginary) fractal in an old Buddhist text.

A:

Maybe this is what Wikipedia meant by "1600s".
B. B. Mandelbrot, in his book The Fractal Geometry of Nature,
has some historical remarks in the last chapter, including:

The idea of fractional differentiaton had occurred to Leibniz as soon as he had developed his version of calculus and invented the notations $\frac{d^k F}{dx^k}$ and $(\frac{d}{dx})^kF$ ... Leibniz's letter to de l'Hospital dated September 30, 1693 ... “John Bernoulli seems to have told you of my having mentioned to him a marvelous analogy which makes it possible to say in a way that successive differentials are in geometric progression.  One can ask what would be a differential having as its exponent a fraction.  You see that the result can be expressed by an infinite series.  Although this seems removed from Geometry, which does not yet know of such fractional exponents, it appears that one day these paradoxes will yield useful consequences, since there is hardly a paradox without utility.  Thoughts that mattered little in themselves may give occasion to more beautiful ones.”

