Q:

How critical were Tycho Brahe’s accurate observations?

I am speculating about the value of Tycho Brahe’s - for his time - accurate observations and Kepler’s calculations.
Might it have been possible for Kepler to formulate his laws based on Ptolemy’s system, assuming he adapted the Earth’s position in a heliocentric system?
For example you might expect that the period of the planets might be known relatively accurately also from Ptolemy’s data.
Similarly, if you were ready to accept elliptical orbits, planets such as Mercury and Mars might give some input to the second law. I realize that there is a component of circular reason involved here, in that you must be open to the laws from the beginning in order to want to make such tests using  Ptolemy’s system.

A:

In process of finding his laws Kepler tried to construct circular motions for planet orbits. The best fit disagree with observations by 8 minutes. Kepler knew that Brahe's observations could not have such errors, so he had to reject his hypothesis. Ptolemy's observation do not have such accuracy. For stars he give coordinates rounded to 20' or 15'. So yes, Brahe's data were crucial

A:

Brahe's observations were crucial. More than the other things that you mentioned: Copernicus system and knowledge of periods. Copernicus system indeed simplifies calculations for planets a lot, but everyone understood how to transfer in principle calculations in one system into another. Periods+Copernicus system would be enough for the discovery of the Third Law,
Copernicus system is needed to find heliocentric distances.)
But the most important discovery of Kepler was the First Law, and for this one really needs observed positions at various times and with high accuracy. Kepler used Mars observations of Brahe. Without these high accuracy observations, one could not guess that the true trajectory is an ellipse rather than a circle (or a combination of circles). The deviation of this ellipse from a circle is quite small. And astronomy, since the time of Aristotle was dominated by the dogma that all motions have to be expressed in terms of uniform motions on circles. This is what everyone from Hipparchus to Copernicus and Galileo accepted without any doubts. It is demolishing of this dogma which constitutes the truly revolutionary discovery of Kepler.

