Q:

Were there doubts that Voigt's time dilation was correct rather than Einstein's?

According to Wikipedia's Voigt transformation:

Lorentz did not adopt this transformation, as he found in 1904 that
  only the Lorentz contraction corresponds to the principle of
  relativity. Since Voigt's transformation preserves the speed of light
  in all frames, the Michelson–Morley experiment and the
  Kennedy–Thorndike experiment can not distinguish between the two
  transformations. The crucial question is the issue of time dilation.
  The experimental measurement of time dilation by Ives and Stillwell
  (1938) and others settled the issue in favor of the Lorentz
  transformation.

Einstein derived the Lorentz transformation using the two postulates, see Einstein’s Postulates and the Lorentz Transformations by Terletskii. Einstein also derived the equations for transverse and longitudinal mass and in the derivation time dilation equation was used. I'm a beginner and just trying to understand the relativity at basic level.
If both Einstein's and Lorentz's derivations were the same then wouldn't it mean that Voigt's time dilation equation had more chance of being wrong? If it was not decided until the experiment of Ives and Stillwell that which version of time dilation equation was right then it would also mean that though Einstein postulates were correct but still until 1938 there was still some doubt regarding some quantitative results derived by Einstein. In other words, if Voigt's time dilation was found correct, how would it have affected the other quantitative results or formulas?
I'd really appreciate if you could help me with it. I'm posting it here because IMHO it has more to do with the history.

A:

If Einstein's postulates are correct then Voigt's transformation is incorrect. Einstein showed in his 1905 paper that the Lorentz transformations were the only ones consistent with two postulates: invariance of the speed of light in all inertial frames and form-invariance of the laws of physics in all inertial frames (principle of relativity). His mathematics was checked by many prominent mathematicians, including Hilbert and Minkowski, so there were no doubts about his derivations long before 1938. 
But invariance of the speed of light by itself is not enough. If Voigt's transformation turned out to be correct it would have meant that the principle of relativity is false, and the frame of ether can be detected after all, albeit not by Michelson–Morley or Kennedy–Thorndike type measurements. 
However, special relativity had so many indirect confirmations by the end of 1910s (electrodynamic effects) that the Nobel committee felt comfortable enough to consider awarding Nobel prize for it (it was not awarded for political reasons), and Miller's seeming detection of the ether wind in 1920s was not taken seriously (his measurement errors were not explained until 1950s). Even general relativity, based on a more sweeping relativity principle, was confirmed by Eddington's observations of the 1919 eclipse (gravitational bending of light). So the Ives–Stilwell experiment of 1938 was more about crossing the t's and dotting the i's by a direct test of time dilation than any real doubts. Various high precision tests of special relativity are performed to this day, see experimental basis of Special Relativity bibliography.

