Q:

What was the first electronic computer?

I would like to know what is considered to be the first electronic digital computer.
A literature ambiguous on this. I found these claims:

ENIAC - a computer constructed by Mr. Eckert and Mr. Mauchly at the University of Pennsylvania 
Colossus - a computer used in Bletchley Park to break the Enigma code, connected with Alan Turing (correction provided in comments: in fact Colossus was used for breaking Lorentz SZ40 enciphered teleprinter)
Harvard Mark I - a computer constructed in collaboration between Howard Aiken and IBM
Z1, Z2 and Z3 - a computers constructed by German scientist Konrad Zuse

Personally, I would say that ENIAC is the right answer, because Colossus was single purpose electromechanical machine, Harvard Mark I was rather an electromechanical calculator than a computer, and Zuse's computers were highly experimental devices (Z1 and Z2 were electromechanical, Z3 was never completely constructed). 
ENIAC was completely electronicised programmable universal computer. But on the other hand it used decimal coding of numbers instead of binary one. If we take this into account, the first computer should be EDVAC or BINAC.
Could anybody please shed more light on this? Some resources would be appreciated as well.

A:

The literature is ambiguous because the question is ambiguous. The characteristics of these early machines are well known, but one can set the criteria for being "electronic computer" according to their preference. Does it have to be completely non-mechanical? Turing universal? digital? binary? History can tell us what happened, not what choice of words we should prefer. 
One early candidate missing from the OP list is the Atanasoff-Berry computer, which Wikipedia calls "the first automatic electronic digital computer". It was conceived by Atanasoff in 1937 and built in Iowa in 1942 with Berry's help to solve systems of linear equations. It had binary arithmetic and electronic switches, but was neither programmable, nor Turing universal. Unlike the ENIAC of 1947, which it inspired and which Wikipedia calls "the first electronic general-purpose digital computer". In 1973 a US court even invalidated the ENIAC patent, ruling that the idea of "electronic digital computer" was derived from Atanasoff. 
Interestingly enough, "the world's first electronic analog computer" was built also in 1942 by Hölzer, an associate of Nazi rocket designer von Braun, to simulate V-2 rocket trajectories.

A:

Why does being decimal disqualify ENIAC?  Decimal electronic stored-program computers used to be a thing, for example the commercially successful IBM 1401. It was a matter of "binary for scientific use, decimal for business use".
My own bias as a programmer disqualifies ENIAC for not being a stored-program digital computer, or more accurately, I'm more interested in stored-program systems. The honors for first place then go to the Manchester Baby. The EDVAC was designed before Baby, but for actually running, Baby wins. That's another bias: a working system.
As the other answer says, the question is ambiguous.

A:

My personal marker is stored program control, ie, the program is stored in the computer memory. Early machines like the original ENIAC, Colossus, Zuse's Z-machines, were all programmed by changing the wiring in some fashion. The Z-machines used relays, ENIAC was an advance because it used electronics (valves, the transistor hadn't been invented). The first stored program computer was the Manchester Baby in 1948.

