Q:

Provenance of mathematics quote from Robert Musil, 1913

The quote is as follows:

"Nur wenn man nicht auf den Nutzen nach aussen sieht, sondern in der Mathematik selbst auf das Verhältnis der unbenutzten Teile, bemerkt man das andere und eigentliche Gesicht dieser Wissenschaft. Es  ist nicht zweckbedacht, sondern unökonomisch und leidenschaftlich.  ...
Die Mathematik ist Tapferkeitsluxus der reinen Ratio, einer der wenigen die es heute gibt."

Where did Robert Musil publish this in 1913?

A:

This quote is from Der mathematische Mensch  (The mathematical man), which is a short essay by Robert Musil, published in 1913.
In this essay Musil makes some considerations about the role and the nature of mathematics.
See for instance:
https://ucldigitalpress.co.uk/Book/Article/64/88/4827/
An English translation is in Musil, Precision and Soul: Essays and Addresses, ‎ University of Chicago Press; Reprint edition (1995).
I haven't the English translation, nor the German original, I checked the quotation in the Italian traslation of  Der mathematische Mensch, L'uomo matematico, in Claudio Bartocci (ed.), Racconti matematici, Einaudi, 2006, where the quotation is on pages 290-291.

A:

R. Musil, "Der mathematische Mensch." In: Der lose Vogel, Leipzig: K. Wolff 1913, pp. 310-314.
Der lose Vogel was intended to be published in monthly installments as a "Monatsschrift", but it appears the project lost impetus towards the end, and resorted to combining multiple issues into one. Musil's brief essay appeared in combined issues 10, 11, and 12. The quoted text from the question appears on page 312.
It should be noted that for each of the poems and essays in this publication the author is not stated. There is merely a list of all authors in the foreword on page VI which includes R. Musil among the essay writers:

[...] die Gedichte sind von M. Brod, F. Werfel, R. Walser. Die Aufsätze sind von:
Alain, H. Beloc, F. Blei, S. Butler, E. v. Gebsattel, G. Hecht, A. Kolb,
W. Krug, R. Musil, P. Scheffer, M. Scheler, H. Schott, R. Stadler, A. Suares,
Vogelstein, O. Vrieslander.

The identification of Robert Musil as the author of "Der mathematische Mensch" must have been based on a different source. Maybe his writing style was easily recognized by contemporaries. The earliest reference to Musil's authorship that I can find is in Musil's "Gesammelte Werke" (collected works) edited by Adolf Frisé, published in 1952, where the essay appears at page 592.

