Q:

Who said that essentially everything in theoretical physics had already been discovered?

There is an anecdote that appears in various popular books on physics, about a physics professor who advised a student of his not to pursue a career in physics since almost all that was to be discovered had been discovered, or something to that effect.
Apparently, the story unfolds just before 1900 and the discoveries of radioactivity and quantum physics that overturned much of the classical thinking.
Who was the professor and who was the student? I seem to remember the professor and student both being notable physicists.
And, is this story true or just one of those things that get made up and spread around?

A:

The anecdote you have in mind concerns Max Planck and his advisor Philipp von Jolly who, in 1874, told the young Planck that it was probably not a great idea to study theoretical physics, since there was not much left to do. With the power of hindsight this is of course extremely ironic since Von Jolly was addressing the man who would personally (though reluctantly) play a large role in the quantum revolution of physics in the early 20th century.
It appears that the source of this anecdote is Max Planck himself. In a 1924 lecture, he told the story as follows: 

When I began my physical studies [in Munich in 1874] and sought advice from my venerable teacher Philipp von Jolly...he portrayed to me physics as a highly developed, almost fully matured science...Possibly in one or another nook there would perhaps be a dust particle or a small bubble to be examined and classified, but the system as a whole stood there fairly secured, and theoretical physics approached visibly that degree of perfection which, for example, geometry has had already for centuries.

I found a little collection of different versions of the story compiled here. One of them gives the anecdote as I reproduced it above, with a reference where one can (presumably) find the original lecture by Planck: A 1996 issue of Scientific American. Regrettably, I do not have access to this journal. Another source which has an identical version refers the reader to a book called "Year Million: Science at the Far Edge of Knowledge", which consists of essays by scientists and apparently also contains this lecture by Planck. 
Even though I was unable to gain access to this either, I think we can be content that it does exist and that at least Planck himself believed the story to be true. 

A:

The title question is different from the one in the text so I'll add a couple of things. Professor Jolly was not alone in his sentiment. Albert Michelson of the Michelson-Morley experiment fame said in 1894 that "it seems probable that most of the grand underlying principles have been firmly established and that further advances are to be sought chiefly in the rigorous application of these principles to all the phenomena which come under our notice". And added, according to some sources, "An eminent physicist remarked that the future truths of physical science are to be looked for in the sixth place of decimals". 
The "eminent physicist" is believed to be Lord Kelvin, who on April 27, 1900 gave a now infamous speech titled "Nineteenth-Century Clouds over the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light", into which the above quote is often retroactively inserted. The two "clouds" were the absence of the ether wind, and the ultraviolet catastrophe in the black body radiation, which led to the special relativity, and the quantum mechanics, respectively. Some add derisively that if Kelvin also mentioned the anomalous precession of Mercury he could go three for three with general relativity.  
These stories are used in many popular books to create an impression of staleness and complacency in the late 19th century physics, before Einstein and Planck "set everybody straight". However, [modern historians are skeptical][1] of such extrapolations. Most theoretical phycisists did not share Michelson's view in 1894, and Michelson himself sounded a different tune in 1902, see Kragh's Quantum Generations, p. 4:"the day seems not far distant when the converging lines from many apparently remote regions of thought will meet on ... common ground." And it wasn't because of Planck's 1900 discovery, Michelson was inspired instead by "one of the grandest generalizations of modern science ... that all the phenomena of the physical universe are only different manifestations of the various modes of motion of one all-pervading substance — the ether." 

