Q:

What famous theorems or results were proven by female mathematicians?

We know that there were/are many famous female mathematicians who influenced the mathematics as we know it today, but their numbers are few compared to male mathematicians. While we have numerous famous results by many male mathematicians like Gauss, Euler and many others, what are famous results bearing the name of a female mathematician which also have a very deep impact on our understanding of mathematics?

A:

See at least Emmy Noether :

was a German mathematician known for her contributions to abstract algebra and theoretical physics. She was described by Pavel Alexandrov, Albert Einstein, Jean Dieudonné, Hermann Weyl, and Norbert Wiener as the most important woman in the history of mathematics. As one of the leading mathematicians of her time, she developed the theories of rings, fields, and algebras. In physics, Noether's theorem explains the connection between symmetry and conservation laws.

Of course, this is only an example; there are many others: see answers below.

A:

Perhaps because of its youth, the mathematical end of Computer Science has several notable women in its history.
Sheila Greibach was a pioneer in the field of formal language theory, particularly in the area of context-free languages. At the time, that would have been considered more a branch of mathematics, as Computer Science wasn't really a thing of its own.
In particular, she developed Greibach Normal Form, which is fairly instrumental in the theory of parsing, which is extremely critical to modern programming languages.
Continuing down programming language theory, Barbara Liskov developed the Liskov Substitution Principle, which was critical in developing a formalized model for object-oriented languages. She won the Turing Award (CS equivalent of the Fields medal) for her contributions.
Did these have a "deep impact" on our understanding of mathematics? Not in the classical sense, but they've led to some amazing developments, arguably as many as the 400 years of calculus/analysis theory.

A:

There is Sophie Germain's theorem, a theorem in number theory, related to Fermat's last theorem and proved by the French mathematician Sophie Germain (1776-1831).

