Q:

Are there any mathematical objects that got renamed over time?

I'm wondering if there are any mathematical objects that were given a name when first discovered (and wildly used at their time), but then got renamed to match their characteristics later?
Counter examples:

Imaginary number was coined by Descartes in the 17th century describing roots of polynomial involving $\sqrt{-1}$.

I've seen some rename suggestions: lateral, orthogonal, perpendicular, vertical number. None of them replaced the original word, yet.

Irrational number was coined by the school of Euclid around two thousand years ago to demonstrate the number that cannot be written as a ratio.

Luckily(?), the word ratio ($a/b$) comes after rational (make sense). So irrational can have both meanings and, thus, does not need to be renamed(?).

Related examples:

In terms of notation change, originally the equals sign was two vertical bars, then became two horizontal bars.

A:

Newton referred to his concept of a derivative as a "fluxion". He called time-varying functions "fluents".
Generally speaking, it is common for important mathematical concepts and entities to be given one name by their discoverer, but later renamed after that person. I think that is true for virtually all entities that are known as "Somebody's number/theorem/group/etc".
Just off the top of my head: I don't know what term Diophantus used, but he likely didn't call them "Diophantine equations".
Or similarly, Lie called Lie algebras "infinitesimal groups".

A:

Another example is the notion of orbifolds. Originally, it was introduced by Satake in 1950s under the (nondescriptive) name V-manifolds. Then, beginning in 1980s, under the influence of William Thurston, it was replaced by the name orbifolds to indicate that they are related to manifolds via the (local) "orbit space" construction. Thurston in his Princeton Lecture Notes describes the process of introduction of the new terminology thusly:

This terminology should not be blamed on me. It was obtained by a democratic process in my course of 1976–77. An orbifold is something with many folds; unfortunately, the word "manifold" already has a different definition. I tried "foldamani", which was quickly displaced by the suggestion of "manifolded". After two months of patiently saying "no, not a manifold, a manifoldead," we held a vote, and "orbifold" won.

A:

Gregoire de Saint-Vincent, along with his student Alphonse Antonio de Sarasa, developed hyperbolic logarithm, now known as natural logarithm, by relating logarithms to the quadrature of the hyperbola $xy=1$.

His findings led to the natural logarithm function, once called the
hyperbolic logarithm since it is obtained by integrating, or finding
the area, under the hyperbola.

Later, when Euler treated a logarithm as an exponent of a certain number, called the base of the logarithm, he identified hyperbolic logarithm as the natural logarithm.

Leonhard Euler changed that when he introduced transcendental
functions such as $10^x$. Euler identified $e$ as the value of $b$ producing
a unit of area (under the hyperbola or in a hyperbolic sector in
standard position). Then the natural logarithm could be recognized as
the inverse function to the transcendental function $e^x$.

