Q:

Historical Survey of Statistical Mechanics

Statistical mechanics is a subject with a particularly rich history. I think of the early debates of Boltzmann and Loschmidt, the rather confusing differences between the approaches of Gibbs and Boltzmann, the philosophical efforts of E.T. Jaynes to phrase entropy in terms of information theory, all the way through to more modern work like Evan and Searles' fluctuation theorem.
A beginner is swamped not only by the intrinsically difficult ideas, but also by the feeling that even the experts can't agree on the most basic definitions. I'm sure that's not true, but when you read Gibbs and Boltzmann it certainly feels that way!
So what I'm looking for a book (ideally technical, like a textbook) which develops the ideas historically. Perhaps similar to Lanczos' book on mechanics. It would discuss historical controversies, and to what extent the modern theory has resolved them. 
Does such a book exist? Thanks. 

A:

Stefano Bordoni's 2012 Taming Complexity (e-book from ResearchGate; review) is a good place to start.(Bordoni has a master's degree in physics and three PhDs, in the history of science, anthropology and epistemology of complexity, and philosophy.)
Bordoni refers to

Brush's 1986 The Kind of Motion We Call Heat: A History of the Kinetic Theory of Gases in the 19th Century and
Brush's & Hall's 2003 Kinetic Theory of Gases: An Anthology of Classic Papers with Historical Commentary,

which are both excellent "surveys of statistical mechanics," especially regarding the problem of whether reversible physical theory (e.g., mechanics) can account for irreversible phenomena (cf. Poincaré's famous "Le mécanisme et l’expérience" in the aforementioned anthology).

A:

The following two books are also very good resources about this topic ; the first one has a more historical approach.
Carlo Cercignani, Ludwig Boltzmann. The man who trusted atoms. Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1998. xviii+329 pp. ISBN: 0-19-850154-4
Giovanni Gallavotti, Statistical mechanics. A short treatise. Texts and Monographs in Physics. Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1999. xiv+339 pp. ISBN: 3-540-64883-6

