Q:

Why were so many pre-18th century Mathematicians polymaths?

It is well known that famous names such as Gauss, Euler and Newton were polymaths as well as their main fields of study and contributed from optics to ship building. Why was this the case in the past? It is known, as far as I am aware, to exist since the Greeks. Why are there so few modern polymaths?

A:

Really, it's because that was the social protocol at the time.
From the Wikipedia article on polymaths,

Many notable polymaths lived during the Renaissance period, a cultural movement that spanned roughly the 14th through to the 17th century and that began in Italy in the late Middle Ages and later spread to the rest of Europe. These polymaths had a rounded approach to education that reflected the ideals of the humanists of the time. A gentleman or courtier of that era was expected to speak several languages, play a musical instrument, write poetry, and so on, thus fulfilling the Renaissance ideal.

So you could say it was one of the primary tenets of Renaissance humanism. This approach stressed a person being proficient in many subjects, specifically the humanities. The philosophy was laid down in a book, The Book of the Courtier, written by Baldassare Castiglione. It laid down the ideas that the optimal person (symbolized by the main characters, a group of courtiers) should be extremely well-rounded.

Why are there so few modern polymaths?

I suspect a combination of apathy and the fact that society no longer values people who have a wide range of talents (unless we count colleges!). Today, we typically only major in one subject in college (although we can focus on a minor, as well). The major is in a specific field, which the student hopes to go into upon leaving college. Our education is utilitarian, but in a different sense than in the Renaissance: we don't need to learn shipbuilding if we're going to work at, say, an art museum, and society no longer expects us too.
This bit is a wee bit dubious, but hopefully my logic makes sense. The various fields of study today, especially in the sciences, are much broader than they were in the time of the Renaissance. It was much easier to learn physics back in pre-Newtonian times (and during Newtonian times, too!) because learning physics didn't entail learning everything from Lagrangian mechanics to tensor calculus. True, the equivalent then of a "physicist" would have to have a broad knowledge of philosophy and metaphysics (as well as possibly alchemy), but probably not as much as a physicist needs to know today.
Finally, it takes time nowadays to become an expert in something. Here's how to become a physicist - in only a decade or two:

Work hard for 4 years in high school and get good grades; show an interest in science, especially physics, to attract colleges.
Spend 4 years in college; majoring in physics, with a possible minor, often in a related field.
Spend 4 to 8 years to get a PhD.
Work as a postdoc at a university for 5 or so years.
Become an assistant professor; work at a university for 5 more years.
Look for a job as a physicist.

A:

Why are there so few modern polymaths?

Because it is pretty much impossible nowadays to master many fields at a level to be able to make significant contributions due to the incredible size of knowledge we have now reached. E.g. David Hilbert was probably one of the last universal mathematicians. The time investment of becoming an expert in just one narrow field is such that one does not have the time to become expert at many.

A:

The last great polymaths were John von Neumann and David Hilbert. After that we perhaps do not see examples in their class. Some may say that Terence Tao can be considered one considering the fact that he has contributed to so many different mathematical fields, but I don't think his diversity can rival say Gauss' or Euler's.
The main reason is that the length and breadth of human knowledge has expanded many folds now than in the time of the great polymaths we know about. Nowadays to get a PhD we work on a sub field of a sub field of a subfield of a field, and many a times we cannot even consider ourselves to be a expert in that particular sub-sub-sub field. In practice thus, it would be nearly impossible now to be a polymath, but one can always try.

