Q:

Element classification by Döbereiner and Newland (law of octaves)

I have been recently studying periodic classification. I am having some confusion regarding old periodic classification.
Newland's law of octaves

In that you can see, in the 4th horizontal line, cobalt and nickel in one slot. When I ask the reason, many web sites and books describe it as "in order to fit elements, he keeps many elements under one slot."
But I thought, "Why he didn't place nickel next to cobalt in another slot? Can't he?"
Why under one slot necessary although he knew they are unlike elements?
In Mendeleev's periodic table, if you look, he places 'Na' sodium in the same group with copper and silver, while they are totally different. Sodium is very reactive, unlike copper, silver, and gold.
I found 2 different versions of Mendeleev's table:  the first in which sodium is placed with copper and all, and the second in which sodium is placed with potassium, lithium etc. (like modern table's group 1 elements) -- that kind of makes sense.
First,

Second,

But mostly I found the first category table on the internet.
I am confused with  positioning; for example, sodium is put with copper, silver, and gold, although they have very different properties -- even today's modern periodic table has a different group for them.
And also why elements are arranged in zig zag order in group in first table  not in a single straight line?

A:

But I thought " why he didn't place nickel next to cobalt in another slot? Can't he?"
Newland ordered his table by atomic mass. "According to the law of octaves, every eighth element in the above table must share similar physical and chemical properties." This pattern starts to break down after calcium. Newland thought thay cobalt and nickle, platinum and iridium, cerium and lanthanum each pair had the same atomic weight.
I am confused with positioning; for example, sodium is put with copper, silver, and gold, although they have very different properties -- even today's modern periodic table has a different group for them.
You are looking at what is called a short form periodic table. Apparently they are popular in former USSR countries. It shows how atoms have similar highest oxidation states, and chemical similarities based on the valence shell.
And also why elements are arranged in zig zag order in group in first table not in a single straight line?
If you look at the top of the table you see "A   B" in each group. The elements under them are arranged left to right according to group. Then you can see Sodium isn't put together with gold, copper, and silver. It goes group IA: H, Li, Na, K, Rb, CS and in group IB: Cu, Ag, Au. In this scheme Group IA is equivalent to group 1 in the IUPAC table and group IB is equivalent to group 11.
Below is a modern version of the short form periodic table that has a much better layout.

