Q:

How does Copernicus explain the discrepancy from "On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres" Book 5. chapter 16

In "On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres" Book 5. chapter 16, Copernicus appears to acknowledge a discrepancy between the old Ptolemy observation and the model. Here is a Google Translate from a German translation:

if one calculates back, it turns out that the location of the apogeum of the eccentric circle was in 119 ° 40 ′ of the fixed star sphere at this last observation. Ptolemy found this place at the time of Antoninus at 108 ° 50 ′; so it has moved forward by 10 ° 50 ′ except for us. We have found the distance between the centers to be 40 such parts smaller, of which 10,000 come to the radius of the eccentric circle. Not as if Ptolemy or we were wrong, but to prove that the center of the earth's orbit has approached the center of the orbit of Mars while the sun has remained immobile...

Copernicus seems to be saying neither he nor Ptolemy were in error, but that the "center of the Earth's orbit" has moved. Did Copernicus ever try to explain how the "center of the Earth's orbit" moved? or to investigate the nature of the movement?

A:

There is really no sign here of any 'discrepancy' at all. In the quoted/translated passage from 'De Revolutionibus', Copernicus is pointing out that the apogee of Mars' orbit has shifted between the time of the observation reported by Ptolemy and his own time. The quoted passage then goes on to refer to Copernicus' theoretical mechanistic ideas for the celestial motions, which explain this motion as well.
Insofar as these ideas and mechanisms involved circles and epicycles, they have become obsolete since Copernicus' time, but that is of course different from any matter of discrepancy. 'Discrepancy' normally implies some kind of incompatibility or contradiction. But the slow motions of apogees over time contradict nothing: planetary tables from Ptolemy's day to the present acknowledge and incorporate such motions. They are part of the natural order, not any sort of discrepancy or mistake.
It may help any further discussion to quote a somewhat better English  translation of the passage in question (i.e. not subject to the hazards of machine translation). This is from Edward Rosen, "Nicholas Copernicus on the Revolutions. Translation and commentary", (Polish Scientific Publishers, Warsaw/Cracow; also Macmillan; also Johns Hopkins, Baltimore; 1978). The reference to an apogee is to the apogee of Mars' orbit ('eccentric') around the sun:-

... computed backwards, the place of the eccentric's apogee in this
last observation obviously = 119°40' [ = 133°20'- 13°40'] in the
sphere of the fixed stars. In Antoninus [Pius'] time Ptolemy found the
apogee at 108°50' [Syntaxis, X, 7 : 25°30' within the Crab = 115°30'-
6°40']. It has therefore shifted eastward 10°50' [= 119°40'- 108°50'
from that time] to ours. I have also found the distance between the
centers smaIler by 40P [1460P as compared with 1500P] whereof the
eccentric's radius = 10,000P. The reason is not that Ptolemy or I made
an error, but that, as is clearly proved, the center of the earth's
grand circle has approached the center of Mars' orbit, with the sun
meanwhile remaining stationary. For, these conclusions are mutuaIly
consistent to a high degree, as will become plainer than daylight
hereafter [V, 19].

Clearly, in the final sentence included here, in the quotation from the Rosen translation (omitted by the questioner), Copernicus was saying that everything is consistent, and at the end of the later chapter (V, 19) to which he refers, he concludes:--

Thus also in the case of Mars the sizes and distances of its motion
have been explained through sound computation by means of the earth's
motion.

