Q:

Examples of abstract proofs that turned out to be false

I found this question that discusses abstract theories that later found application. I am interested in accepted (at least at one point in time) abstract theories that:

was contradicted by attempts to apply and/or observed phenomenon (as currently understood).
are irreconcilable with another accepted and intersecting abstract theory

I am a licensed engineer by profession; but turning to philosophy. Some individuals point to the a priori or abstract nature of mathematics as justification that other a priori forms of knowledge exist. I hope to demonstrate that this dependence is unreliable by showing that mathematics requires a posteriori verification to acquire meaning.
I would be happy with 2–3 examples, or if someone could refer any texts that might document the history of such errors that would be helpful.

A:

I'm not sure if this is what you are interested in, but two supposed proofs of the four color theorem appeared in the XIXth century and were accepted as correct proofs for eleven years, but both turned out to be wrong. Quoting form Wikipedia:

One alleged proof was given by Alfred Kempe in 1879, which was widely acclaimed; another was given by Peter Guthrie Tait in 1880. It was not until 1890 that Kempe's proof was shown incorrect by Percy Heawood, and in 1891, Tait's proof was shown incorrect by Julius Petersen—each false proof stood unchallenged for 11 years.

A:

Proofs (your title) in mathematics (your tag) don’t get invalidated. Some of Kant’s more exalted efforts, on the other hand... (See e.g. Prop. 4 or 7 in his Metaphysical foundations of dynamics.)
A famous quote comes to mind [german, english, context] (emphasis mine):

At this point an enigma presents itself which in all ages has agitated inquiring minds. How can it be that mathematics, being after all a product of human thought which is independent of experience, is so admirably appropriate to the objects of reality? Is human reason, then, without experience, merely by taking thought, able to fathom the properties of real things?
In my opinion the answer to this question is, briefly, this: As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not certain; and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality. It seems to me that complete clearness as to this state of things first became common property through that new departure in mathematics which is known by the name of mathematical logic or “Axiomatics.” The progress achieved by axiomatics consists in its having neatly separated the logical-formal from its objective or intuitive content; according to axiomatics the logical-formal alone forms the subject-matter of mathematics, which is not concerned with the intuitive or other content (...)

A:

There are some borderline cases.  Frege wrote a two volume treatise on set theory,  Die Grundlagen der Arithmetik [The Foundations of Arithmetic] (1884).  Russell found a contradiction in Frege's system (Russell's paradox).  So mathematicians came up with other systems for doing set theory.

