Q:

Names of the electromagnetic units in SI

The unit of electric charge is the coulomb, named after Charles Augustin de Coulomb. This makes sense because Coulomb's law talks about the force between two charges. Likewise, it also makes sense to name unit of electric current after André-Marie Ampère, who too was a contemporary of Coulomb. But I have seen that the SI unit of capacitance is the farad, named after Michael Faraday. Why was Michael Faraday's name given to the unit of capacitance instead of any other electromagnetic unit? Likewise, why is the unit of electrical resistance or magnetic reactance named after Ohm, given that Ohm's law talks about the relationship between current and resistance, and electrical resistance can exist irrespective of Ohm's law. Similarly, I do not understand why the SI unit of magnetic flux density is named after Tesla (see a related post here), since he most contributed to electrical engineering. Further examples include the volt, siemens, weber, and henry (for electromotive force, electric conductance, magnetic flux, and inductance, respectively). Why were their names prioritized over other famous scientists, like Pierre Curie or Hippolyte Fizeau or Emil Lenz?
More generally: How were the names of the SI units relevant to electromagnetism decided on, and why were certain scientists prioritized over others?

A:

Actually, the farad was the term used for a unit of charge by Latimer Clark and Charles Bright in 1861 in honour of Michael Faraday.
But by 1873, it had become the unit of capacitance and was adopted as such by The British Association for the Advancement of Science by the first report of their Committee for the Selection and Nomenclature of Dynamic and Electrical Units chaired by Sir W Thomson in their 43rd meeting.
More, it was then adopted as such by the International Congress of Electricians held in Paris  in 1881 as reported by The Electrician of that year.
The Tesla as the unit of magnetic induction was adopted much later. It was adopted by the General Conference on Weights and Measures held in 1960 and was proposed by the electrical engineer, France Avcin.

