Q:

Did scientists at some point believe that *everything* is made out of atoms?

Did scientists at some point believe that everything is made out of atoms? Or were atoms always accompanied by other "elementary particles"?
I myself did not realize that there existed other "elementary particles" besides atoms until quite recently. I assumed that both solid objects, liquids, the wind blowing, fog, and light was all made out of atoms.
Apparently, at least light is not made from atoms, but "photons". While trying to determine what wind and fog is made of, I opened a metaphorical "can of worms" which caused my head to start spinning from all the cryptic and complicated Wikipedia articles, talking about numerous "elementary particles" to the point where I lost all ability to make any sense of the whole situation, as so often is the case when I try to "simply look something up".
Would appreciate if this were straightened out once and for all, both in historical and current understanding.

A:

There was a time in the late 1800's-to-early 1900's when it became fairly clear that all substances in the material world were made of atoms. This "atomic theory" was not adopted by all scientists, however; there were significant holdouts for years after, and all the while the question of what an atom was actually made of was still unsettled. 
Then, in the first 35 years of the 20th century it became fairly clear (again) that atoms were made of three types of subatomic particle: protons, neutrons and electrons. These are the constituents of all ordinary atoms we encounter in our everyday lives. The so-called "zoo" of other subatomic particles discovered since then in laboratory experiments are not found in ordinary matter because their lifetimes are very short, and the conditions needed to create them (extremely high temperatures & energies) don't exist except in exotic places like particle accelerators and the central core of the sun. 
Photons are indeed not atoms- they are bundles of energy that have no mass and always travel at the speed of light. The interactions between photons and electrons (which are the outermost constituents of atoms) give rise to most of the ordinary properties of matter that we experience in our daily lives. 

A:

I’ll supplement Niels’ answer by answering some of your questions that he didn’t.
Wind is mostly made of nitrogen and oxygen molecules, which make up most of the atmosphere. Nitrogen molecules have two nitrogen atoms joined together and oxygen molecules have two oxygen atoms similarly joined.
The part of fog that looks white or grey is mainly made of water molecules, which have two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom joined together. The water molecules are mixed in with the nitrogen and oxygen molecules that make up most of the colorless air.
The protons and neutrons in the nuclei of atoms are actually made of even more fundamental particles called quarks, held together by gluons. Specifically a proton has two “up” quarks and one “down” quark, while a neutron is the opposite. As far as we can tell today, quarks, gluons, electrons, and photons are not made of anything even more fundamental.
There is a detailed and very successful mathematical theory of elementary particles called the Standard Model. It actually has seventeen different kinds of particles, by one popular way of counting them which you can see in the diagram with 17 boxes here.
Some of the particles are fundamental but unstable and quickly decay into stable fundamental particles. Decaying into other particles does not mean that those other particles were “inside” the unstable ones. Instead, the unstable particles are able to mutate into other kinds of particles according to certain rules.

A:

Historically, the concept of "atoms" (from the Greek atomos, indivisible) just denoted the smallest particles of matter. Democritus and followers argued that the only things that existed were atoms and the void. The idea of subatomic particles would not have made sense to them - atoms were simply the smallest indivisible parts.
When physics in the 19th century started to discover the elementary parts of matter they often talked about them as "corpuscles" ("small bodies"). The term atom became attached to the smallest constituent of chemical elements, and then people found the electron and other particles, so the terminology got confused. 

