Q:

Are there any canonical books on history of science?

I was looking for some fundamental books on history of science. I picked Thomas Kuhn book "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions" but it's not exactly about history of science - it's more on methodology and philosophy of science. Can you recommend some books? Thank you.
UPD: To be more precise, I wanted to learn more about how humanities in Europe have developed from the "beginning of science" till our days.

A:

Throw away the book of Kuhn. He is not a scientist.
He is a philosopher. Who has an agenda. And trying to push this agenda.
This approach has nothing to do with science.
"Canonical books" on history of science are (my choice):

"Dictionary of scientific biography" (multiple volumes by multiple authors)
"A history of ancient mathematical astronomy" by O. Neugebauer,
"Science awakening" by B. L. van der Waerden, 
"The Exact sciences in antiquity" by  O. Neugebauer.
Other list members can complement this list of CANONICAL books.
There are many books on history of specific sciences in specific periods,
but there is no (and cannot be) a "canonical book" on history of WHOLE SCIENCE
of ALL periods. Such book is not possible. All books listed above concern either a
specific area of science or a specific period, except N 1.
But they are "canonical".
I cannot call any other book in history of science "canonical",
but perhaps other members will make more suggestions.
This is certainly a "big list" question. The kind of question which is not welcome
(or explicitly prohibited) on this site, for the reasons which I do not understand. 

A:

A "complete" history of science is hard to find today : the topic is too wide.
You can try with the multi-volume multi-author :

The Cambridge History of Science (2002-on), 7 vols

or the "older" :

René Taton, Histoire gènèrale des sciences, (1957-on) 3 vols.

But can be useful to start with recent overviews of some "critical moment", like the so-called Scientific Revolution; they are shorter and usually supply a rich bibliography :

David Lindberg, The Beginnings of Western Science: The European Scientific Tradition in Philosophical, Religious, and Institutional Context, Prehistory to A.D. 1450 (2008)
Steven Shapin, The Scientific Revolution (1998)
Peter Dear, Revolutionizing the Sciences: European Knowledge and Its Ambitions, 1500-1700 (2nd ed 2009)
John Henry, The Scientific Revolution and the Origins of Modern Science  (2008).

For connection between European science and other cultures, see :

Toby Huff, The Rise of Early Modern Science: Islam, China and the West (2nd ed 2003)
H.Floris Cohen, How Modern Science Came into the World: Four Civilizations, One 17th-Century Breakthrough (2011)

Some suggestions :

for Greek science : G.E.R.LLoyd (in general) and Wilbur Knorr, Reviel Netz for mathematics.
for Medieval science : Edward Grant and David Lindberg
for Early Modern Science and Galileo/Descartes/Newton : Alexandre Koyré, Stillman Drake, I.B.Cohen.

