Q:

Mathematicians who wrote fiction

Who among professional mathematicians are also known as fiction writers?
I know Omar Khayyam (11-12 century), and two more recent ones: Sofya Kovalevskaya and Michele Audin.
For the purposes of this question, let us define a "mathematician" as a person who has at least a few papers reviewed in Zentralblatt.

A:

Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, better known as Lewis Carroll, wrote some well-known fiction books.
In case you consider Marvin Minsky a mathematician (16 papers in Zentralblatt), he coauthored with Harry Harrison the science fiction novel The Turing Option (by the way, a pretty bad book).
Like Quenau, also Jacques Roubaud was a member of the Oulipo group and a prolific author of fiction and poetry. He passes the Zentralblatt test, as it lists two entries: Monades et descente, with Jean Benabou, and La notion d’associativité rélative.
Roberto Vacca (1927) is a researcher in logic and number theory (six entries in Zentralblatt), but also a well-known (in Italy) science popularizer. He debuted as a writer of science fiction and political fiction in 1963 with the novel Il robot e il minotauro (The robot and the minotaur), followed by other twelve books. These novels were not very successful and fame as a writer came only in 1971 with the essay (not fiction) on the apocalyptic theme Il medioevo prossimo venturo (edited in English as The Coming Dark Age The Middle Ages), considered a classic of futurology .
Felix Hausdorff published, under the pen name Paul Mongré, several essays, some poetry and a play, but no fiction.

A:

Fred Hoyle was an Astronomer, but he passes the Zentralblat test.  He wrote several novels, most notably The Black Cloud.
In addition to The Black Cloud, I read a thriller he wrote with his son, Geoffrey, called The Westminister Disaster. Probably dated, but I enjoyed it at the time.

A:

My answer copied from another forum:

Mathematician Eric Temple Bell

President of the MAA, 1931-32
Author of the book Men of Mathematics
Bell numbers, Bell polynomials
etc.

Also was a successful science fiction author under the pseudonym John Taine.
See the fascinating book
Reid, Constance, The Search for E.T. Bell, MAA spectrum, The Mathematical Association of America, 1993

