Q:

Source documents for Bronstein's Cube of Physics

The "cube of physics" is a quite useful summary of physics, for historical$^1$ and teaching$^2$ purposes, that is best explained (as far as I know) in "Physics On A Cube" by Jeremy Côté or in "The cube of physical theories" by Sabine Hossenfelder
$^1$ it recaps all biggest turning points in the history of physics
$^2$ for example, it is in the intro of Zee's Einstein Gravity in a Nutshell
The idea has been attributed to Matvei Bronstein on wiki:
He introduced the cGh scheme for classifying physical theories. "After the relativistic quantum theory is created, the task will be to develop the next part of our scheme, that is to unify quantum theory (with its constant h), special relativity (with constant c), and the theory of gravitation (with its G) into a single theory."(2)
But the citation note references a paper I could find nowhere:
(2) Bronstein, M. P. "K voprosu o vozmozhnoy teorii mira kak tselogo" ("On the Question of a Possible Theory of the World as a Whole"), in Uspekhiastronomitcheskihnauk. Sbornik, No. 3 (Moscow: ONTI, 1933) p. 3–30, as quoted and translated in Gorelik (2005) loc. cit.
Even the one who wrote the long article I mentioned at the beginning couldn't find anything:
I could not locate the original article by Bronstein. As is the case with a lot of old papers, they have citations from other resources, but there is no copy to be found. It took enough work to find Bronstein’s first name...
Any help?

A:

I think, with the precious help from KCd, that we can safely assert that:

At least Bronstein was involved in that as it was something relevant for him (see around pdf-page 153).

The different attribution to "Gamow, Ivanenko and Landau about a century ago" could be meaningful, but the referenced document is not available; anyway it's all Soviet people from "pariah CCCP", so maybe they all worked on it. Anyway, "Bronstein's map" would be likely to be more accepted than "Soviet's map".

Still, it would be very nice to find if it is the "original work" of Bronstein, as this is what Carlo Rovelli wasn't quite satisfied about: "it's not clear whether the drawing is a Bronstein's original work... it's a bio, not a paper of his own". He replied this when I shared the book link and the below image with him.

