Q:

Has there been an equivalent in physics to Ramanujan in maths?

Ramanujan's story is a well known story of the Indian young man who turned out to be a mathematical genius without a scholarly education. He was "discovered" by the mathematician Hardy at the beginning of last century and came to England where he was appointed a university job.
Are there similar examples in the realm of physics?

A:

George Green may be considered a physicist or a mathematician. (The titles of his papers suggest a physicist). He was a son of a miller, and a miller himself,
in Nottingham, self educated. At the age of 35 he rented out his mill, and wrote "An Essay on the Application of Mathematical Analysis to the Theories of Electricity and Magnetism" where he discovered what is called now Green's formula, Green function and potential, and established the foundation of potential theory. He published it by himself, as a little booklet, supported by subscription of his friends. And only after that he went to Cambridge where he obtained a formal education, wrote few more papers on mathematical physics (his first work is by far the most famous) and died at the age of 48.
Edit. Later historians investigated what books were available to him in Nottingham. They found one appropriate entry in the local gentlemen's club library: Laplace, Traité de mécanique céleste. If this was the source of his self-education, then it is not clear where he learned French. He never attended any school before he wrote his opus magnum.
Edit 2. The mill has been restored and still functions as a museum of George Green.

A:

Michael Faraday would meet your criteria as a physicist of historic significance without a formal education.  Notably, he spent most of his teenage years working as an apprentice bookbinder. Somewhat like Ramanujan, his research career began following his initiation of an unsolicited correspondence (in his case, to the chemist Humphry Davy).

A:

Other possibilities might be James Joule and Oliver Heaviside.
Joule was a brewer by trade and worked on science entirely as an amateur (as far as I know).  He was one of the few examples of a physicist who made fundamental contributions to the field despite working in isolation from the community of scientists.  In fact, he was very much at odds with the community of his time and was embroiled in some controversies and priority disputes with Mayer.  He performed ground-breaking experiments on heat which ultimately led to the law of conservation of energy and the first law of thermodynamics.
Heaviside made fundamental contributions to physics and electrical engineering despite being self-taught and isolated from the scientific community for most of his life.  Heaviside re-wrote Maxwell's equations in the compact form which is now known to all physics students.

