Q:

Advance of the perihelion of Mercury

When I did my MSc in astrophysics back in '95-'96, I was told that there had been an attempt around the early 20th century to account for the advance of the perihelion of Mercury by altering the Newtonian gravitational equation by changing the exponent of radial distance r to something like 2.0016.
Now obviously this was rapidly debunked by the Einstein theory, but it still strikes me as very odd because in Newtonian theory the exponent has to be exactly 2 and so what could have motivated this complete kludge with no basis in physical or mathematical principle. It is unlike the Nordstrom theory because that, though wrong, is actually mathematically coherent.
My problem is that this was an aside from a lecture 25 years ago and I can't find any details on it. I would like to know more on the reasoning behind this idea and when and by whom this was suggested. If possible I'd like to know if it gained any traction whatsoever.

A:

The idea that the exponent in the law of gravitation is not exactly 2 was around since 18th century when people were trying to work the precise theory of the Moon. At some point, Clairaut thought that deviations in the Moon motion prove that the exponent cannot be 2. A satisfactory theory of the Moon was only developed in the middle of 18th century.
Now, it is not clear why you write that "in Newtonian theory the exponent has to be exactly 2". On what grounds? After all, physical theories have to be checked against experiments and observations, and when a good theory does not account for some small deviations, it must be modified. This is exactly what happened when General relativity was developed. Of course it is a much more elegant modification than just replacing the exponent, but how could one know in advance what kind of modification is required?

A:

In this page K. Brown writes:  

The failure to arrive at a realistic Newtonian explanation for the
  anomalous precession led some researchers, notably Asaph Hall and
  Simon Newcomb, to consider the possibility that Newtonian theory
  itself was at fault, i.e., that perhaps gravity isn't exactly an
  inverse square law. Hall noted that he could account for Mercury's
  precession if the law of gravity, instead of falling off as $1/r$ ,
  actually falls of as $1/r^n$ where the exponent $n$ is 2.00000016. However,
  most people didn't (and still don't) find that idea to be very
  appealing, since it conflicts with basic conservation laws, e.g.,
  Gauss's Law, unless we also postulate a correspondingly modified
  metric for space (ironically enough). Several researchers attempted to
  explain Mercury’s precession by imposing a finite speed of gravity on
  Newton’s theory, but these efforts too gave unsatisfactory results.
  (See Section 8.10.)

It seems that the first one to propose this solution was Asaph Hall:
A suggestion in the theory of Mercury, Astronomical Journal, vol. 14, iss. 319, p. 49-51 (1894), which can be found here.

