Q:

Who coined the term "uniform" as in "uniform distribution"?

During the late 16th century and early 17th century, published work about probability theory (e.g. Liber de ludo aleae by J. Cardan published in 1663 but writen around 1564) studied dice games using equiprobability on a finite sample space.
Nowadays, we use terms such as equiprobability and uniform distribution to refer to their work, but at the time those people didn't use these terms.
Who coined the terms uniform and equiprobability ? 

A:

The first uses of what we call "uniform distribution" occur very early, discrete arguably already in Cardano, and continuous in Simpson and Bayes. According to Handbook of Beta Distributions:

"One of the  first records that mentions  the continuos uniform distribution is the  famous  paper by the reverend Thomas Bayes (1763) (only a few years after Simpons' written records in 1757)."

The paper is Essay towards solving a Problem in the Doctrine of Chances, where conditional probabilities and the Bayes's formula are introduced. Bayes considered independent experiments with the probability of success being some number $p$ between $0$ and $1$ and made the number itself to be random with the probability to fall into any interval between $0$ and $1$ equal to the length of that interval. However, the term "uniform distribution" itself is much more recent. According to James Landau's entry to Jeff Miller's Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics:  

"Uniform distribution appears in 1937 in Introduction to Mathematical Probability by J. V. Uspensky. Page 237 reads, "A stochastic variable is said to have uniform distribution of probability if probabilities attached to two equal intervals are equal." This is a slight variant of the modern terminology, which would be "a variable is said to be uniformly distributed" or "a variable from the uniform distribution". Uniformly distributed is found in H. Sakamoto, "On the distributions of the product and the quotient of the independent and uniformly distributed random variables," Tohoku Math. J. 49 (1943)."

