Q:

How did Dedekind arrive at the completeness of real numbers?

Reading Dedekind original manuscript (https://archive.org/details/essaysintheoryof00dedeuoft) it seems that he was after formalizing the completeness of the real numbers, which was known to him as the continuity of real numbers. Formalizing the completeness of real numbers then easily led him to construction of real numbers using cuts of rational numbers, which also provided a model for the real numbers(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dedekind_cut).
However, I have seen some sources talking about Eudoxus ratios (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eudoxus_of_Cnidus) being the predecessor of the Dedekind cuts, which sort of means that Dedekind knew how real numbers could be constructed using rational numbers. This in turn means that the Dedekind construction of real numbers suggested the completeness of real numbers to Dedekind.
So the question is that how did Dedekind conclude the real numbers are complete? Was he convinced that the reals were complete because they could be constructed using cuts of rational numbers (was this an acceptable (logical) argument to him)? or he followed a different logic?
In other words, what made Dedekind accept real numbers are complete, was it the construction of the real numbers or was it something else?

A:

That the set of "real numbers" must complete was intuitively understood already by the Greeks, though they had neither a formal concept of real number nor the formal definition of completeness. For them, the "numbers" were rational numbers, and the "irrationality of $\sqrt{n}$" meant that there are no enough numbers to measure the lengths of all segments in geometry. But the intuitive notion of numbers which allow to measure any length was desirable and it slowly evolved. By the time of Dedekind, it was clear what mathematicians want of real numbers, and the problem was to "construct" them from rationals. In particular it was known that what we call "completeness" is a desirable property. Dedekind found a way to formally construct from rational numbers the system of numbers with desired properties, including completeness.
This was not the first such construction. Eudoxus's theory of proportions also achieves this purpose. Its disadvantage is that it is more cumbersome and awkward to use. 

