Q:

What is the history of the classification of states of matter?

In my school curriculum, and in many standard presentations such as Wikipedia, it is claimed that there are four fundamental states of matter: solids, liquids, gases, and plasmas. How was this list developed?

When did the original conception of matter as being divided into solids, liquids, or gases first arise, and by whom? Did this classification exist already in antiquity, or was it a byproduct of the scientific revolution and the discovery of gases as separate from air?
How, when, and by whom was plasma added to this standard list? I find this especially puzzling since, in discussions among physicists, there seems to be pretty widespread disagreement over whether plasma deserves to be on a similar footing as the first three (for example, because it is not separated by a phase transition from the other states).

A:

As @Mary notes in the comments, the ancient idea of "earth, water, air, and fire" maps nicely onto solid, liquid, gas, and plasma, but wasn't until the early 19th century that the idea of three states of matter was well established, and plasma only become commonly referred to as a fourth state of matter in the 1950s.
The distinction between solid and liquid go back to antiquity, but the term "gas" was first used for a compressible fluid by van Helmont and published in 1648 in his posthumous "Ortus medicinae" :

This spirit, hitherto unknown, which can be neither be contained in vessels nor reduced to a visible body, I call by a new name, gas.

The modern concept of a "gas" was, however, really only established by Lavoisier more than a century later in the 1770s. By 1847 the idea of the three states of matter was commonplace enough to be included in introductory chemistry textbooks.
I believe William Crookes in 1880 was the first to argue strongly that there exists a fourth state of matter that we would now call a low density plasma, but he did not have our modern concept of a plasma.  ("Plasma" was first used for this ionized state by Langmuir in 1928.) There seems to be a big gap, however, between Crookes and the mid-1950s when references to plasma as a "fourth state of matter" started to appear again, largely by people involved in nuclear fusion research. (See here, for example, for a more recent discussion of plasma and its history.)

