Q:

How did Newton come up with mass terms in his gravitation formula and then what led to a confusion between inertial and gravitational mass?

Newton had realised that the acceleration due to gravitational force had to be inversely dependent on the square of the distance between two bodies. But how did he arrive at the conclusion that the force is also directly proportional to the product of the masses of the two bodies? And then how could have the terms "inertial" and "gravitational" mass and the confusion of them being equal started?

A:

The terminology of inertial and gravitational masses does not appear until Einstein, and had to do with his  transitioning from classical mechanics to general relativity, see Development of gravitational theory. In classical mechanics it is more natural to think of the same $m$ entering both $F=ma$ and $F=G\frac{Mm}{r^2}$ than about two separate masses which are then made "equivalent". It was not really a "confusion". Here is how  Newton phrases it in Definition I of Principia he writes:

"The quantity of matter is the measure of the same, arising from its density and bulk conjunctly... It is this quantity that I mean hereafter everywhere under the name of body or mass. And the same is known by the weight of each body; for it is proportional to the weight, as I have found by experiments on pendulums, very accurately made, which shall be shewn hereafter."

As to the proportionality of the gravitational force to masses, it manifests (along with the "equivalence") in the acceleration of free fall being the same for all bodies of equal weight. To get a universal $a=G\frac{M}{r^2}$ from the second law the gravitational force has to be proportional to $m$. The universality itself was, of course, established already by Galileo, but Newton confirmed it with his own experiments described in Principia, Book III, Proposition VI, Theorem VI:

"It has been, now for a long time, observed by others, that all sorts of heavy bodies (allowance being made for the inequality of retardation which they suffer from a small power of resistance in the air) descend to earth from equal heights in equal times; and that equality of times we may distinguish to a great accuracy, by the help of pendulums. I tried the thing in gold, silver, lead, glass, sand, common salt, wood, water, and wheat... The boxes hanging by equal threads of 11 feet made a couple of pendulums perfectly equal in weight and figure, and equally receiving the resistance of the air. And, placing the one by the other, I observed them to play together forward and backward, for a long time, with equal vibrations."

