Q:

How did people make things perfectly straight?

Constructing houses, telescopes, and most other important projects requires shaping pieces to precise size, at perfect right angles, or to have flat surfaces.  People today have all kinds of ways of accomplishing similar precision, but only because they have tools which were themselves made with impressive precision.  Levels and rulers come from the factory, and if you tried to make your own perfectly straight or right-angled object from scratch, I couldn't imagine doing it.  So how did people before industrial technology accomplish this?

A:

The easiest way to check if something is "straight" is to just look. Humans can pretty much tell if something is not straight, to a certain point. Another easy way is to use a piece of string. If you pull their ends apart, it will provide you a "straight" reference which you can use to compare to other things. That way you can, for example, draw a line beside it on paper, or make a mold to build a straight object, or hammer down imperfections.
Talking about strings, you can make a square angle (on paper) with a string acting as compass. Use one end as the center of the circle and a pen in the other end.
See this image below. Already having a straight line (black line) as starting point, pick any two points (red dots) in the line. Then draw two circles (with compass, or string, or whatever you have like that) with a radius that makes them overlap (you can even use different radii!). Take the points where the circles touch (blue dots) and draw a line through them (blue line). There you have: a line that is in right angle to the original line. If you can draw that on paper, you can also carve the angle in a piece of wood (for example), comparing it to the drawing.

Always remember that there is not a single real perfect object. Perfection is reserved for abstractions. Real objects respect tolerances and Metrology, the science of measuring, makes it very clear that you simply can't know how perfect something is because "measuring" is always comparing to something that also has some tolerance. You can only try to reduce imperfections until you get to your technological limits or to your requirements. Luckily technology evolves through careful iteration and breakthroughs (only up to a certain point too!).
By the way, the latest version of the International System of Units (SI) tries very hard to make measurements absolute at least in conceptual terms, linking units to absolute values in physics. However, keep in mind that the instruments that will measure those values, and then be reference to other, simpler, instruments, will also have tolerances. Remember that it isn't just fabrication that affects an instrument, but ambient temperature, pressure, humidity, operator skills and all sorts of other factors.

A:

Indeed, it is much easier to manufacture an arc of circle than a straight ruler.
When you rub two rulers against each other you obtain an arc of a circle (or a straight line) as their common edge. This is because the only curves of constant curvature are straight lines and circles. So nothing else will slide smoothly, without gaps.
But there is a simple way to obtain a straight line by a similar process.
You need 3 rulers. When you rub rulers A and B against each other, their common edge
becomes a circle (or a line). Suppose that the edge of A becomes convex and the edge of B concave. Then you rub A and B against ruler C, and repeat this process of rubbing each pair of the triple, until all three edges will slide against
each other smoothly. The only possibility is that all three edges are straight lines.
The process is described in the book M. Berger, Geometry revealed (Springer 2009), on p. 270. He claims that perfect rulers are made by this process to this day.
Similar process can be used to make flat 2-dimensional surfaces. It is used to make spherical lenses and mirrors. If two pieces of glass
slide nicely against each other in all directions, then they must be
spherical. By using three pieces you can make a flat surface. There is no such simple method to make a parabolic mirror, for example.
Another pure mathematical method is based on the use of Paucellier-Lipkin inversor (this is a hinge mechanism, of which one of the points moves along a straight line). For long time people thought that such a mechanism is impossible, until it was invented by
Paucellier
in 1864. (The legend says that Chebychev wept when he was shown a working model:-) Lipkin was Chebyshev's student who proved that the Paucellier's mechanism has the required property. Ref.
Philip Davis, The Thread (Birkhauser, 1983). But I've never heard of any practical use of the Paucelier-Lipkin inversor.

A:

To construct a right angle, you take three cords, one of which is three of whatever unit you use, the second four of it, and the third five.  Put them together in a triangle and the angle between the three and the four ones will be a right angle.  This was used for a long time in ancient Egypt and Babylon.  (Alternatively, you can use some other of the Pythagorean triples.  There are many ancient lists of them.)
Straight lines can likewise be measured with nothing more than a weight and a cord:  the plumb bob, which was certainly in use in ancient Egypt.

