Q:

What does "organic" mean in old texts when describing plane curves and their construction?

I've been reading about 17th and 18th century geometers and their research into plane curves, especially algebraic curves.  A term that comes up frequently is "organic". By context it seems to pertain to the mechanical construction of curves, such as Newton's "organic" construction of a conic.  Some names I see in connection with this are van Schooten, Newton, and MacLaurin.
I cannot find a definition.  Apparently it is a term that was widely understood by geometers before 1900, like "species" and "right line", but has become obsolete in modern times.
Newton is thought to have fabricated sophisticated "organic rulers" to support his investigations into curves (see Bloye, The Geometrical Thought of Isaac
Newton and Bloye and Huggett, Newton, the Geometer).
A few archive.org links: Tweedie, MacLaurin, Newton.
My question:

I'm looking for more information on the meaning and usage of this
term.  I'm also interested in more information on Newton's "organic
rulers."

I'm used to thinking that these days we are spoiled by being able to draw curves at will with Geogebra, but I suspect that we would be surprised at the forgotten tricks and technology used by the geometers of yore (the best term I can think of for the ancient and pre-1800 geometers) to visualize their subject.

A:

For historical usages of words, the Unabridged Oxford Dictionary is the best resource. Usages from 15th century can also be found. Under the entry "organic", there is a historical usage.

Mathematics. Of the drawing of a curve: performed by means of instruments; mechanical. Chiefly in organic description. Cf. earlier organical adj. 3c. historical.
Chiefly with reference to Isaac Newton.
1860   C. R. M. Talbot tr. I. Newton Enumeration Lines of Third Order
vi. 26 (heading)    Of the Organic Description of Curves.
1949   Amer. Math. Monthly 56 46   When only 21 years of age Maclaurin
wrote a work called Geometria Organica which was inspired..by the
organic description of a conic which we quoted from Newton's
Principia.

A:

While in the present day the word "organic" has connotations of "natural" and "holistic", back in Newton's day it was much closer to the Greek word oργανoν (organon: tool, instrument).
For an exploration of organic methods and their place in 17th century geometry I recommend Guicciardini, Isaac Newton on Mathematical Certainty and Method.
From pg 6:

Another line of research concerned the so-called organic description
(or generation) of curves. This was an important topic, since in order
to determine the point of intersection of curves in the construction
of geometrical solutions, it was natural to think of the curves as
generated by a continuous motion driven by some instrument (an
oργανoν). It is the continuity of the motion generating the curves
that guarantees a point of intersection can be located exactly.
Descartes had devised several mechanisms for generating curves. In De
Organica Conicarum Sectionum in Plano Descriptione Tractatus (1646),
which Newton read in Exercitationum Mathematicarum (1657), van
Schooten had presented several mechanisms for generating conic
sections. This research field was connected with practical
applications, for instance, lens grinding and sundial design, but it
was also sanctioned by classical tradition and motivated the highly
abstract needs underlined by Descartes. Newton was able to devise a
mechanism for generating conics and to extend it to higher-order
curves.

One theme found throughout the book is Newton's criticism of "speculative" methods such as Cartesian analysis, and the definition of conics as planar sections of a cone.  Philosophically he much preferred the mechanical (organic).
From pgs 106-107:

[...] Newton criticized the lack of elegance and ease in Cartesian
analysis of indeterminate problems and believed Cartesian synthesis
was based on “spurious” postulates: point-wise constructions, motion
of curves, construction with threads, and intersection of cone and
plane (barren speculation). He favored expressing the contents of
known and unknown segments that have a given ratio to one another, and
using projective properties to compose the locus by organic
descriptions based on acceptable postulates, namely, rotating rulers.
Nevertheless, Newton was a master in Cartesian algebra, the “common
analysis of the moderns,” and when he had to deal with a challenging
problem, the classification of cubic curves, he made use of algebraic
techniques that were at odds with his program of restoration of
ancient analysis.

The book describes many organic mechanisms for generating curves.  Newton invented a mechanism for determining tangents, and one that could be used to draw the conic defined by five points $A,B,C,D,E$ (pg 94, letter to John Collins, 1672,see below).

