Q:

What are the earliest accounts of publication bias?

Publication bias is a huge issue is some academic fields. What are the earliest accounts of publication bias?

As requested in the comments, publication bias intuitively means that if you read one article showing that drug X works to treat disease Y, you should wonder how many articles showing the same drug has no affect are unpublished due to the habits of publishing only positive results.
Here is a video explaining what publication bias is (15 minutes, worth watching if not familiar with publication bias):

Half of all clinical trials ever completed on the medical treatments
  currently in use have never been published in the medical literature.
  Trials with positive results for the test treatment are about twice as
  likely to be published, and this applies to both academic research and
  industry studies.

Definition from the Wikipedia page on publication bias:

Publication bias is a bias with regard to what is likely to be
  published, among what is available to be published. Not all bias is
  inherently problematic – for instance, a bias against publishing lies
  is often a desirable bias – but one problematic and much-discussed
  bias is the tendency of researchers, editors, and pharmaceutical
  companies to handle the reporting of experimental results that are
  positive (i.e. showing a significant finding) differently from results
  that are negative (i.e. supporting the null hypothesis) or
  inconclusive, leading to a misleading bias in the overall published
  literature.

A:

Here some early papers, listed in chronological order:

Sterling TD (1959) Publication Decisions and Their Possible Effects on Inferences Drawn from Tests of Significance--Or Vice Versa. Journal of the American Statistical Association 54: 30–34.
Rosenthal R (1979) The file drawer problem and tolerance for null results. Psychological Bulletin 86: 638–641.
Simes RJ (1986) Publication bias: the case for an international registry of clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 4: 1529–1541.
Dickersin K (1990) The existence of publication bias and risk factors for its occurrence. JAMA 263: 1385–1389.
Chalmers I (1990) Underreporting research is scientific misconduct. JAMA 263: 1405–1408.1.  Sterling TD (1959) Publication Decisions and Their Possible Effects on Inferences Drawn from Tests of Significance--Or Vice Versa. Journal of the American Statistical Association 54: 30–34.

