Q:

Was further research done about the invention of Algebra?

In his book “A History of Mathematics”, Carl Boyer mentions that both AlKhwarizmi and Abd ElHamid Ibn Turk wrote their books on Algebra (“Aljabr w Almuqabla” and “Logical Necessities” respectively) at nearly the same time. He also states that they use the same methodology and even an example used for demonstration is exactly the same in both books. He then concludes that this indicates that these books weren't the first on the subject as it's widely believed and that Algebra was already mature enough at that time for them to share the same methodology.
Quoting from the book:

The Algebra of al-Khwarizmi is usually regarded as the first work
  on the subject, but a publication in Turkey raises some question about
  this. A manuscript of a work by ‘Abd-al-Hamid ibn-Turk, titled
  “Logical Necessities in Mixed Equations,” was part of a book on
  Al-jabr wa’l muqabalah, which was evidently very much the same as
  that by al-Khwarizmi and was published at about the same time—
  possibly even earlier. The surviving chapters on “Logical Necessities”
  give precisely the same type of geometric demonstration as al-
  Khwarizmi’s Algebra and in one case the same illustrative example,
  $x^2+21=10x$. In one respect, ‘Abd al-Hamid’s exposition is more
  thorough than that of al-Khwarizmi for he gives geometric figures to
  prove that if the discriminant is negative, a quadratic equation has no
  solution. Similarities in the work of the two men and the systematic
  organization found in them seem to indicate that algebra in their day
  was not so recent a development as has usually been assumed. When
  textbooks with a conventional and well-ordered exposition appear
  simultaneously, a subject is likely to be considerably beyond the formative stage. Successors of al-Khwarizmi were able to say, once a problem had been reduced to the form of an equation, “Operate according to the rules of algebra and almucabala.” In any case, the survival of al-Khwarizmi’s Algebra
  can be taken to indicate that it was one of the better textbooks typical of Arabic algebra of the time. It was to algebra what Euclid’s Elements
  was to geometry—the best elementary exposition available until modern times—

Did any further investigation go into this and try to trace the steps that led to this claimed maturity? 

A:

Nothing new was discovered after Boyer published his textbook. In 2014, Victor J.Katz and Karen Parshall published their book Taming the Unknown: A history of algebra from antiquity to the early twentieth century, in which they write (chapter 7):

While influencial, al-Khwārizmī's was evidently not the ony algebra text of the time. A fragment of a contemporaneous work remains, namely, the section Logical Necessities in Mixed Equations from a longer work Kitāb al-jabr wa'l muqabalah […] by ʿAbd al-Hamīd ibn Wase ibn Turk Jili.

So, no other algebra textbook from that time was discovered meanwhile.

