Q:

In ancient times, how did people conclude that the shape of Earth is a sphere?

This is more of a philosophical question, but I want a mathematical explanation. During ancient times, it was well accepted that the surface of Earth was spherical. People first observed this when they saw that starting from a point going to any direction they ultimately reach the same point, but by this logic how did they conclude that or even guess that this might be a sphere? Why did nobody guess that, say, a torus might also  be possible? As far as I know, at those time there were lots of mathematicians. If they were convinced by this logic then they must have had some logical explanation, and I do not think that for them just staying on the surface would at all be possible to guess the structure of a surface.
One of my logical thoughts for this is the following: If I take a telescope and stand on a field and look up, my vision will never  get limited by the surface of Earth. Mathematically, if I draw a line perpendicular to the surface at a point, then that line will never intersect the surface. But doing the same experiment at each point on Earth is not very convincing. Can anybody please provide me a better logical explanation of how people of that time concluded that the shape of Earth is a sphere?    

A:

The ancients understood that a lunar eclipse is caused when the earth gets between the sun and the moon.  They saw that the shadow the earth casts on the moon is round.  From that it wasn't too far of a leap for them to conclude the earth is a sphere.

A:

Eratosthenes of Cyrene did an experiment that confirmed that the Earth was roughly spherical, and estimated its circumference around 200 BC.  
Note that the lunar eclipse observation mentioned by Gregory Grant suggests that the Earth is round in 2-dimensions (an Earth shaped like a flat disc is consistent with this observation), but does not provide evidence regarding the Earth's 3-dimensional shape.  

A:

Aristotle provided a number of arguments for the sphericity of the world in his writings. For example, (and this one has already been mentioned but I don't believe with any attribution to Aristotle) in On the Heavens, he noted that during a lunar eclipse the shadow of the earth is circular in shape.  
Also in On the Heavens, Aristotle observed that as one moves to the south, new constellations become visible. Furthermore, a relatively short trip to the north also reveals new stars. So, in addition to concluding that the earth is spherical, he also ascertained that it cannot be of great size.   

