Q:

Why was in 1584 the eclipse of the moon used to calculate the width of the Atlantic ocean rather than just using the Sun itself?

In this video is explained that in November 1584 the width of the Atlantic ocean was discovered by comparing the hour when the eclipse of the moon started in England with the hour when the eclipse occurred in Virginia USA. But doesn't also the Sun arise on particularly times in England and USA to calculate the distance? Why was the eclipse of the moon used?
See min 22:00 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w6JZSzVcKgo

A:

Perhaps the following quotewill be more, ahem, illuminating.

As any Eclipse chaser can attest, total solar eclipses are extremely
  rare from any given location. A spot on Earth may go centuries before
  totality graces the skies. In theory, a partial would be much more
  common. And of course, this would require something such as smoked
  glass to observe first contact. That leaves us with lunar eclipses.
  Any given eclipse can easily span more than one full hemisphere of the
  Earth. Also, while contact with the diffuse outer cone of Earth’s
  shadow, or penumbra, is rather subtle, contact with the inner core, or
  umbra, is not. Such an event can be defined by eye to a span of time
  of about five minutes. Up until the time of the invention of the
  telescope, eclipse timing was the only semi reliable way to judge
  longitude. The idea is simple; observe the local time of first contact
  with the umbra, then compare it with the known time from a separate
  fixed location. The Earth rotates 15 degrees per hour, (360/24=15) or
  1 degree every 4 minutes. If umbral contact was said to begin at
  2:05AM at a given location and you observed it to begin at 1:05AM, you
  are 15 degrees west of the first location. The Greeks first noted this
  during an eclipse on September 20th, 331BC. Alexander the Great in
  Mesopotamia recorded the eclipse as beginning two hours after sunset,
  while on the north shores of Africa, the city of Carthage it was seen
  to start at sunset. Ptolemy correctly deduced that Alexander’s
  position was 30 degrees or 2 hours east of Carthage. None other than
  Christopher Columbus was a student of the works of Ptolmey. He
  attempted to use this method to judge his position on his second and
  third voyage to the new world. The eclipses concerned were on
  September 14th, 1494 (part of saros cycle #119) and February 29, 1504
  (saros cycle #109).

