Q:

Compass and straightedge: why?

Why is it that, in ancient Greece, mathematicians tried to solve geometrical problems using compass and straightedge only and, apparently, only if that failed, they tried to use other tools? Note that this question is not about what they were (and weren't) able to achive using compass and straightedge alone, but about why that was their first choice.

A:

The real reason is probably that straightedge and especially compass are the simplest, most primitive instruments, and also easy to make. At the same time they are quite accurate. (Straightedge is not so easy to make and is not so accurate, but certainly it stands next to the compass on these criteria).
A modern high school student tends to think that to double the cube it is easier to measure the side, then to calculate the cubic root approximately. But this is anachronism. Deprive the student of all modern tools, and prohibit to use the decimal system. How will s/he do the job?
If you think of the tool which is needed to double the cube (a parabola, invented by Menaechmus, exactly for this purpose),
it is much more complicated than a straightedge and a compass.
This real reason was disguised: these instruments were probably considered "sacred" at some time. There is a popular theory that in general, geometry has ritualistic origin:
The ritual origin of geometry"
For example, the problem of doubling the cube clearly has some ritualistic origin: the original question was about doubling an Apollo altar. And it is natural to expect that only some sacred tools were permitted. 
At a later time the sacred principle became a philosophical principle: the 
straight line and circle are the only "perfect" figures because "they look the same at all of their parts." (In modern language: isometry group acts transitively on them.) This was explicitly proclaimed by Plato and Aristotle.
In particular, Plato declared that the main goal of astronomy is to reduce
all celestial motions to uniform circular motions. (Why circular? Why not on ellipses/parabolas?) This philosophy actually slowed down the development of astronomy.
Remark: the ancient Greeks were great theorists in mathematics but not so good
in practical applications. They probably thought a straightedge was a great
instrument without trying it in practice for precise constructions. That a straightedge is not really useful when high accuracy is required was only discovered by the 18th century by precision instrument makers. If the Greeks had discovered this, they would have limited their geometric constructions to "compass only." In fact, one can do with just a compass everything which one can do with straightedge + compass.
That the straightedge is really redundant was proved in 19th century. See
 Division of the circle and compass constructions for a discussion of this.

