Q:

When was double-paned glass first invented and used for insulation?

Double-paned glass windows have a hollow space between two panes of glass, usually just filled with air. This can make a much better insulator than normal glass, according to Engineering Toolbox.
I would like to know when and where the first double-paned glass was made, and by whom? How was it constructed?

A:

lmgtfy
google cache of mimivanderhave.com

1945  The first double-pane, insulated window was introduced

That's without attribution;   door and window claims

From single to double pane windows… The true evolution of double pane
  windows originated in 1913 when the Andersen Lumber Co. became the
  first to manufacture wood window frames. In 1932 they added the sash
  and hardware, and two years later, even the glazing. Making the entire
  factory-squared, tight-fitting assembly was the first step in laying
  the groundwork for what would become today's double pane windows for
  the home. In 1952, they introduced a Welded Insulated Glass window,
  and the double pane window was born.

An interesting note over at ecobuildingpulse  says: 

Robert Struble, communications manager at PPG Industries (formerly
  Pittsburgh Plate Glass), says that the concept of double glazing
  originated in the 1860s. An inventor filed a claim with the U.S.
  Patent and Trademark Office for an insulating glass product consisting
  of two glass panes separated by rope and bound with tar. “Of course,
  nothing happened with [that product],” Struble says. “Nobody used it,
  and it was not necessarily commercially viable.
1940s and '50s: Double and Triple Glazing
The east- and west facings of the United Nations' headquarters in New
  York, completed in 1953, are clad in insulated glazing. Muhammad
  Ghouri/Flickr The east- and west facings of the United Nations'
  headquarters in New York, completed in 1953, are clad in insulated
  glazing. In 1945, PPG developed one of the first commercially viable
  double-glazed IGUs in the U.S. Though they were originally used for
  Pullman railroad cars, the units found their way into buildings the
  following year, reducing U-factors from the 1-plus values of
  single-glazed units to 0.47.

