Q:

Which are the most ancient theorems that negate the existence of some deeply valued entity?

Are there theorems earlier to the works of Abel and Galois showing that a problem that mathematicians had been trying to solve for a long time was actually unsolvable? Or are those works novel in the sense of establishing the inexistence, rather than the existence, of some highly desired entity?

A:

Some of the ancient examples.
Irrationality of $\sqrt{2}$. Goes back to Pythagoreans, although they phrased it differently. The "highly desired entity" were two numbers (positive integers) that are to each other as the side of a square to its diagonal. This would have supported the "all is number" thesis that Pythagoreans held, if we believe Aristotle (there are reasonable doubts, see Zhmud, All Is Number?). Stories about the "revolution" the negative result caused are likely exaggerated, at best, see Fowler, Mathematics of Plato's Academy.
Infinitude of primes. The "entity" was the largest prime. Probably also goes back to Pythagoreans, although many authors assert that Euclid came up with it on his own. There is no evidence either way. But he thought it important enough to include into Elements even though the proposition is not used anywhere later.
Archimedes, Apollonius, etc., routinely derived "symptoms" in construction problems, violation of which implied that the problem has no solution. For example, in On Sphere and Cylinder Archimedes considered the problem of cutting a sphere by a plane to divide its volume in a given ratio, reduced it to a cubic equation (in modern algebraic translation, he equated ratios), and derived conditions for those to have a solution.
Many more examples are discussed in Crippa's dissertation Impossibility results: from geometry to analysis, which is a comprehensive survey of early history, from antiquity to 17th century. He distinguishes between "absolute" impossibilities, such as the ones above, and impossibilities conditional on the tools employed, such as impossibility of duplicating a cube, trisecting an angle or squaring a circle with ruler and compass.
I am not sure the distinction is very crisp. The impossibility of squaring a circle followed by proving transcendentality of $\pi$, which is harder, but not conceptually different from proving irrationality of $\sqrt{2}$. But, in any case, those are closer to what Abel and Galois did, and were not proved until 19th century despite widespread belief since antiquity, and (flawed) earlier attempts starting with Descartes and Gregory, see Lutzen, The Algebra of Geometric Impossibility.

