Q:

Why were so many artificial intelligence founders so optimistic?

1954: The Georgetown experiment in 1954 involved fully automatic translation of more than sixty Russian sentences into English. The authors claimed that within three or five years, machine translation would be a solved problem.
1956 -  Herbert Simon: "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do"
1967 - Marvin Minsky: “within a generation ... the problem of creating ‘artificial intelligence’ will substantially be solved.”
...

Why were so many AI founders so optimistic in the early stages of AI?

A:

I suggest that the tacit assumption in the question---that all founders of A.I. were optimistic about the goal being reached very soon---is historically false. 
Some were optimistic, but just as many were not, although they hoped that their work was a step to the eventual realization of this goal far in the future.  
I'm not sure it has anything to do with the generation they were part of being particularly optimistic. Many scientists in the same generation, including many noted physiologists, were sceptical about such claims, yet worked to make contributions toward this goal.
Many researchers in the same generation denied that artificial intelligence in the sense of pure Turing Machines COULD EVER do ALL the work biological brains were doing. M. Lighthill, R. Gerard, N. Rashevsky (originator of inhibition in neural network models), R. Rosen, Popper, Penrose, Hayek, Lucas, Pribram, etc., etc.
E.g., in a paper (Church’s thesis and its relation to the concept of realizability in biology and physics) in 1962, Rosen, argued that most arbitrary neural networks are not computable. Which does not mean artificial intelligence is impossible, but that it requires other methods of physically realizing computation. 
Most suggested schemes are neural networks conceptually, but require specialized physical systems to be realized, due to the number of simultaneous interconnections. Indeed, one can couple Turing machines in a particular way to make a "as-a-whole" noncomputable (hypercomputable) system. Such discussions were present at the same time as much of A.I. was being developed.
(This has been discussed by J. Copeland in the 1990's---and the one catch is that Turing computation is the only computation that has a universal computer. Most hypercomputation concepts lack universal realizations, but depend on their construction on what they can and cannot do, are more specialized.) 
McCulluch and Pitts were students of Rashevsky for instance, and they published on related subjects all the way through the 1950's.

A:

According to Generations, by William Strauss and Neil Howe (S&H), the so-called World War II, or "Greatest" Generation, born 1901-1924 in America, were a particularly optimistic generation, in large part because of their life cycle. They won  World War II as young men, landed a man on the moon in their middle age, and enjoyed the Reagan (economic) boom as oldsters. Simon (born 1914), Minsky (born 1919) and Reagan himself (born 1911) were all members of this generation. "Artificial intelligence" emerged during the period of these men's middle age, and that's why their optimism is sometimes associated with their science.
They had been shaped this way as children by parents of the two preceding generations: FDR's 
"Rendezvous With Destiny" Generation (or what S&H called "Missionaries,") and the Lost Generation of FitzGerald and Hemingway. Mr. Howe (and Mr. Strauss before he passed away) believe that today's young people, the so-called Millennials, born 1982-2001, are another optimistic generation, raised by the Boomers (the modern "Rendezvous") and Generation X (the "new Lost"). Hopefully without a "World War" attached to their designation. This would be particularly true of Americans, somewhat true of others in a "global" economy.
These prognosticators made one fundamental mistake; that of assuming that succeeding generations will be like them and continue their trajectory. S&H postulated four different generations with different priorities, with the fourth remotest (the Millennials), taking up the "baton" of the World War II generation. So the vision of these World War II generation men will be realized in the middle age of the Millennials, in the 2020s-2030s, not during the middle age of the so-called Silent generation (of Alan Greenspan and Neil Armstrong), (1965-1985).

