Q:

Is the symbol $e$ for the base of natural logarithm honoring Euler?

According to Internet (actually, Wikipedia and Wolfram MathWorld), I have two information:  It was Euler who first introduced the symbol $e$ (before people used $b$);  the symbol is to honor Euler.  
I find this very strange.  My theory is that $e$ is for "exponential" not for Euler.
So what is the evidence that Euler was using the symbol to "honor" himself?

A:

On the The number e page, one can find the following:

As far as we know the first time the number e appears in its own right
  is in 1690. In that year Leibniz wrote a letter to Huygens and in this
  he used the notation b for what we now call e.  [...] Retrospectively,
  the early developments on the logarithm became part of an
  understanding of the number e.

Later:

So much of our mathematical notation is due to Euler that it will come
  as no surprise to find that the notation e for this number is due to
  him. The claim which has sometimes been made, however, that Euler used
  the letter e because it was the first letter of his name is
  ridiculous. It is probably not even the case that the e comes from
  "exponential", but it may have just be the next vowel after "a" and
  Euler was already using the notation "a" in his work. Whatever the
  reason, the notation e made its first appearance in a letter Euler
  wrote to Goldbach in 1731

Some other details are given here:

Euler started to use the letter e for the constant in 1727 or 1728, in
  an unpublished paper on explosive forces in cannons, and the first
  appearance of e in a publication was Euler's Mechanica (1736). While
  in the subsequent years some researchers used the letter c, e was more
  common and eventually became the standard.

A:

You are right and your Internet source is wrong. First, Euler introduced this notation himself. And clearly this stood for "exponential". Euler was a modest person, and I cannot imagine him naming anything for himself. Second, if someone wanted to name something after Euler, s/he would choose capital E.  

