Q:

Really confused about the history of logic / proofs / etc

I'm a little confused when I read that mathematical logic is actually a very recent field (1800's - 1900's), regarding the foundations of mathematics and so on.
By this I refer to writing proofs in classical propositional logic systems (Hilbert-style, natural deduction, sequent calculus, etc), extending up to first-order logic, using that to define theories like ZFC which (to my knowledge) is largely seen as a modern-day foundation for mathematics. Likewise for Peano axioms, Peano arithmetic, and so on.
I get confused on this because haven't we been doing mathematics for thousands of years? How were we doing proofs before? How were we doing mathematics with no "foundation"?
Were we just blindly using arithmetic and real numbers and so on without really defining what they were or how they worked? Did Euler and Gauss do all their advanced number theory stuff on these informal foundations? What about Newton and Leibniz inventing calculus? All of this years before we start talking about logic and model theory? How did people convince each other that this stuff actually worked especially once we start getting into concepts like infinity?
I don't really understand the timeline of it all or why logic was such a late subject. Did we choose to formalize it so late for some specific reason? What were we trying to solve or achieve? How was it being done before? Why did it take so long before we started asking questions about mathematical foundations?

A:

Mathematical logic is a quite modern discipline : it emerged in the mid-19th century with Boole, Peirce and Frege.
Logic instead, is quite ancient : we can date it at least from Aristotle (384–322 BCE) and the Stoics. 
In ancient Greek mathematics we have poofs and axioms : see Euclid's Elements and Archimedes' treatises.
Thus, the axiomatic method is at the core of mathematics since the beginning.
For a recent study on the Greek origins of proofs, see Reviel Netz, The Shaping of Deduction in Greek Mathematics (2003). 
For the ancient world (Greece compared to e.g. China) the works of G.E.R. Lloyd are releveant; see e.g. The Ambivalences of Rationality (2017) and The Ideals of Inquiry (2014).

"Foundational" aspects are present since the origins of science, mathematics and philosophy; see Aristotle's Posterior Analytics as well as  Descartes' Mathematics and Physics.
But the concepts of method, rationality, certainty and so on evolved over time, as well as "tools" and "languages" : thus, it makes little sense to ask "how it is possible to do math prior to $\mathsf {ZFC}$". 

