Q:

Old unsolved questions in mathematics

John Stillwell, in his textbook on arithmetic cites Erdos:

As the great
Hungarian problem-solver Paul Erdos liked to point out, if you can
think of an open problem that is more than 200 years old, then it is
probably a problem in number theory.

What are some examples of >200 years old unsolved problems NOT from number theory?

A:

(This probably does not answer your question, so it can be moved to the comments.)
The fourth book of Albrecht Dürer's Vnderweysung der messung (1525),   is devoted (among other things) to polyhedra, and in particular he explores the possibility to give a planar "unfolding" of a polyhedron (here the truncated cuboctahedron). Dürer's list is not exhaustive, and so one can argue that he (implicitely) posed the problem to give a planar unfolding (with no overlaps) for a general polyhedron. This lead to Dürer's problem, also known as Shephard's conjecture (1975), which is an open problem.
Now, our problem is the following: does Dürer's problem date back to 1525, or is it simply a modern reinterpretation inspired by his work?

EDIT
Some comments and a partial answer:
I believe that there are fundamentally two difficulties in finding old open problems in mathematics, and in particular not related to number theory.
The first is that many problems, initially of a geometric or combinatorial nature, can be reformulated in numerical terms and in fact become number theory problems: I am thinking, for example, of the problem of finding a perfect cuboid, or the three great problems of antiquity, including the problem of finding the regular polygons that can be constructed with a ruler and compass (which is equivalent to determining all of Fermat's primes).
The second is that, even in the case of number theory problems, it is not easy to establish when and by whom a certain problem was actually posed. For instance, Nicomachus of Gerasa is often attributed with certain (still open) problems concerning perfect numbers. In reality it is doubtful that his contemporaries thought those were problems: rather, they were considered as facts. Only in the 16th century Hudalrichus Regius showed that not all numbers of the form $2^n-1$ for all primes $n$ are themselves prime, and so being able to give a counterexample to one of Nicomachus' statement.
This situation is similar to the one cited with regard to Dürer: although he had all the tools he needed to formulate a conjecture (and thus to pose a problem), he probably simply thought it was natural that it was always possible to unfold a polyhedron, and indeed in the fourth book cited he provides a 'practical' algorithm (here I'm citing the second Latin edition of Dürer's treatise by Camerarius):

Si quis igitur ea componere velit, is accipiat duo folia papyri, bitumine, aut pasta cohaerentiaa, et corpora illa super eadem ita describat, ut acuto cultello alterum foliorum secundum lineas ductas scindatur, et cum omnia reliqua ex residuo papyri fuerint soluta, tunc facile complicabitur in ductibus et scissuris. Ideoque advertendum est ad sequentem ductinem, nam talia ad plurima conducunt.

i.e.

So if someone wants to make them up, take two sheets of paper, some bitumen or a cohesive paste, and describe those bodies on them in such a way that with a sharp knife one of the sheets is torn according to the lines drawn, and when all the rest of the paper has been unbound, then it will be easily folded according to the lines and cuts. For this, it is necessary to pay attention to the following directions, because these lead to different solutions.

The same can also be said of Fagnano's problem. In fact, the problem formulated and solved by Fagnano is actually the following: "In a given acutangle triangle, inscribe a triangle whose perimeter is the smallest possible." For example, in Two Applications of Calculus to Triangular Billiards by Eugene Gutkin, (The American Mathematical Monthly, Vol. 104, No. 7, 1997), we read:

We assume that the triangle T is acute, and view it as a billiard table. The pedal triangle T_1, which is inscribed in T, is then a periodic billiard orbit [...] Moreover [...] is the shortest [...], the only closed (prime) billiard orbit known [...] The first proof, by calculus, that among all inscribed traingles the pedal triangle has the least perimeter, is attributed to J.F.F. Fagnano, ca. 1775. In his honor, the problem just stated is often called the Fagnano problem [...]

It is therefore clear that in reality Fagnano did not pose the problem, not only in its full generality (i.e., in the case of any polygon), but not even in the case of a non-acutangle triangle (which is still an open problem, one of the 5 most resistant problems in dynamics, according to Anatole Katok).
Returning to the original question, one answer (cheating a bit) could be the Kepler conjecture: today it is no longer considered an open problem, but when (2003) the first edition of Stillwell's book was published, I think it still was (in 1998, Thomas Hales announced that he had a proof, but only in 2014, the Flyspeck project team, headed by Hales, announced the completion of a formal proof, accepted by the journal Forum of Mathematics, Pi in 2017).
In the same spirit (an open problem at the time of the first edition of Stillwell's book), the Ptolemy's problem (or Alhazen's problem, and somehow related to the Fagnano's problem), i.e. "find the point on a spherical convex mirror at which a ray of light coming from a given point must strike in order to be reflected to another point," does not fit in for only 6 years: Alhazen gave the first geometric solution in his Book of Optics, and algebraic solutions were found in the 20th century, but only in 1997 was proved that there is no ruler-and-compass construction to solve it.

A:

As a possible example "of >200 years old unsolved problems NOT from number theory" there may be the following:
According to Peter Pesic, "[V I] Arnol’d points out [that] Leibniz was moved to conjecture that (in modern terms) an Abelian integral along an algebraic curve (taken between algebraic limits) is a transcendental number. This conjecture remains an important unsolved problem." (Historia Mathematica 28 (2001), 215–219, at 218).
I didn't succeed in tracing the source for this in Arnol'd or in Leibniz, {edit:} but @user6530 has since then kindly supplied a link to the original form of Leibniz's conjecture, given in a letter of 1691. The subject of the 1691 discussion and conjecture appears to be  integrability, and there is no mention of transcendental numbers (a concept which also appears to have been in 1691 still in the future). From this it appears that the so-called "modern terms" of the conjecture put forward in the secondary source (which was all that I originally had available to quote), may be a more radical alteration of the original than only a rendering of it into 'modern terms', and it may be unclear whether it fairly represents the original meaning and scope of Leibniz's 1691  conjecture. Indeed my lack of any primary source was the reason why I mentioned the conjecture only as a "possible" item within the category requested in the question. In the current state of the discussion, it does not seem clear that Leibniz's calculus problem falls within number theory. But a clarification of the claimed scope of 'number theory' for the purposes of this question does seem desirable. Whether the conjecture offered here 'falls within' number theory might depend on whether number theory is now being defined so wide as to include any problem in any field for which some other problem can be specified which is in some way parallel with it and also arguably falls within number theory. Such a definition might seem to colonize the whole of mathematics.

