Q:

Is there an astronomical reason behind the order for the names of days of the week?

The seven days of the week seems to be commonly named after celestial bodies. What I find curious is that all seven days apparently share the same names in both West and East.

Sunday is, of course, Sun's Day. In East Asia, it is 日曜日 - Day of the Sun.
Monday comes from "Moon's Day". In East Asia, it is 月曜日 - Day of the Moon.
Tuesday is Mars / Týr's day. In East Asia, it is 火曜日 - Day of Mars.
Wednesday is Mercury / Odin / Wodin's Day. In East Asia, it is 水曜日 - Day of Mercury.
Thursday is Jupiter / Thor's Day. In East Asia, it is 木曜日 - Day of Jupiter.
Friday is Venus / Frigg / Freyja's Day. In East Asia, it is 金曜日 - Day of Venus. 
Saturday is Saturn's Day. In East Asia, it is 土曜日 - Day of Saturn. 

The choice of planets probably reflects their higher visibility. But this doesn't explain why they are ordered the aforementioned way. So, is there an astronomical reason for this specific order? And does it explain the apparent agreement between Europe's and the Sinitic cultural sphere in naming their weeks - or did it come about due to cultural diffusion / pure coincidence?
(Note: I used Japanese for the Asian examples, but Korea shares the same system. Traditional Chinese did too, but Monday through Saturday was simplified to "Star Day 1-6" in Modern Chinese while Sunday remained the Sun's.)

@LieRyan has raised some evidence[1] supporting the idea that the order became globalised due to cultural diffusion. So this just leaves the question of why the order is the way it is.
 [1]: Interestingly, one of the linked sources noted that the order of the five planets differed from classical Chinese ordering of elements. While true, it is actually the reverse of the (different, but more common) traditional order.

A:

One theory says, 

`If you order the "planets" according to either their presumed distance from Earth (assuming the Earth to be the center of the universe) or their period of revolution around the Earth, you arrive at this order: Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn
Now, assign (in reverse order) these planets to the hours of the day:
1=Saturn, 2=Jupiter, 3=Mars, 4=Sun, 5=Venus, 6=Mercury, 7=Moon, 8=Saturn, 9=Jupiter, etc., 23=Jupiter, 24=Mars
Then next day will then continue where the old day left off:
1=Sun, 2=Venus, etc., 23=Venus, 24=Mercury
  And the next day will go
  1=Moon, 2=Saturn, etc.
If you look at the planet assigned to the first hour of each day, you will note that the planets come in this order:
Saturn, Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus
This is exactly the order of the associated week days. Coincidence? Maybe.

Another article says

Ancient Mesopotamian astrologers linked a planet-god to each hour of the day and then arranged them to their correct cosmological order. They used a seven-sided figure to keep track of the proper names of the hours and days in relation to the planet gods where each vertex was marked with a planet’s name in the proper order.

So the conclusion is that the order of the week-days is supposed to be governed by the planetary positions of the planets of our solar system.

A:

As Amit mentions, the naming probably originated from hellenistic astrology in Egypt, wherein each day would be associated with the influence of a particular celestial object. The origins are lost, but the writings of Roman historian Dion Cassius (AD 150-235) have survived; he describes the scheme as follows:
The celestial objects were ordered according to their orbital period:

Saturn 29 years
Jupiter 12 years
Mars 687 days
Sun 365 days
Venus 224 days
Mercury 88 days
Moon 29 days

Now assign the first hour of the first day to Saturn, the second to Jupiter, etc, and repeat the cycle. The 24th hour is then assigned to Mars, the 1st hour of the second day to the Sun, and so forth. The first hour of the 8th day will correspond with Saturn again, and the whole cycle is complete. Each day would then be named after the celestial object assigned to the first hour (which corresponds with 6 a.m.). In this way, we get the correct order
Saturn, Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus.
The association between Saturday and the Sabbath may come from the Book of Genesis: the planets were created on the 4th day, which according to Jewish tradition starts on the first Tuesday, at 6 p.m. (13th hour). If we start our naming scheme at that point, with Saturn first, we indeed arrive at Mercury on Wednesday 6 a.m., Jupiter on Thursday 6 a.m., etc. Another theory states that Saturn is associated with bad luck, so one should refrain from working on this day. The Christian adoption of Sunday as the day of prayer was probably meant to stomp out competing religions such as the sun-worshiping Mithraism; also, Sunday was believed to be the day of Jesus' resurrection.
By the first century AD the astrological week had reached India, where the names of the seven days in Sanskrit follow the names of the same seven planets. From India, the weekdays spread to Tibet, Burma, Nepal, Thailand, and Ceylon; by the Song dynasty, at the end of the first millennium, it had reached China.
source: Mapping Time: The Calendar and Its History

A:

The choice of planets probably reflects their higher visibility.

Nice catch, but it's not perfect. I checked the Wikipedia pages for Mercury, Jupiter, and Saturn, and found that they're not in that order for apparent magnitude. You've also probably heard (or perhaps even observed for yourself) how bright Venus is - there's no reason for it to be that far down the list.
There aren't any other astronomical patterns that I can see.

Size: The ancients wouldn't have been able to properly figure out the sizes of the planets, given their limited technology. There's also no pattern in the week.
Distance from Earth: Nope. Once again, Venus is far, far away, while the Sun is number 1. Jupiter and Saturn are farther off, which would make sense, but the pattern isn't right.
Importance of their namesakes vs. importance of the bodies: This is a weird one, but hey, it's a shot. I thought that perhaps the ancients would have given their most important deities the first spots in the week, but that's clearly not the case. Look how far down Jupiter is. The same goes for Venus. The bodies do seem to be listed in their physical importance - after all, the Sun is a lot more important to us than Jupiter.

