Q:

What was taught in 19th century European electricity and/or magnetism courses?

What topics were taught in late-19th century electricity and/or magnetism courses in Europe?

A:

Some data:
The plan for the famous 1867 textbook Treatise on Natural Philosophy by William Thomson (Professor of Natural Philosophy at the University of Glasgow for over 50 years) and Peter Guthrie Tait

contemplated four volumes; the printing of the first volume began in 1862 and was completed in 1867. The other three volumes never appeared.
It was intended to be an all-comprehensive treatise on physical science, the foundations being laid in kinematics and dynamics, and the structure completed with the properties of matter, heat, light, electricity and magnetism. But the literary partnership ceased in about eighteen years, when only the first portion of the plan had been completed, because each of the members felt he could work to better advantage separately than jointly.

Tait, who held the chair of Natural Pilosophy at Edinburgh from 1860 until shortly before his death in 1901, on his own produced books on:

Sketch of Thermodynamics (1877);
Heat (1884);
Light (1884);
Properties of Matter (1885).

Oliver Heaviside's papers on electromagnetism was collected into the three-volumes Electromagnetic Theory (1893-1912).

In 1884 he recast Maxwell's mathematical analysis from its original cumbersome form (they had already been recast as quaternions) to its modern vector terminology, thereby reducing twelve of the original twenty equations in twenty unknowns down to the four differential equations in two unknowns we now know as Maxwell's equations. The four re-formulated Maxwell's equations describe the nature of electric charges (both static and moving), magnetic fields, and the relationship between the two, namely electromagnetic fields.

Joseph John Thomson, that in 1884 was chosen to become Cavendish Professor of Physics at the University of Cambridge, published in 1895 his Elements of the Mathematical Theory of Electricity and Magnetism:

[it] was a readable introduction to a wide variety of subjects, and achieved considerable popularity as a textbook.

