Q:

Were Michael Sendivogius findings in Chemistry considered by him to be Alchemy?

According to Michael Sendivogius

Michael Sendivogius (/ˌsɛndɪˈvoʊdʒiəs/; Polish: Michał Sędziwój; 2
February 1566 – 1636) was a Polish alchemist, philosopher, and medical
doctor.
A pioneer of chemistry, he developed ways of purification and creation
of various acids, metals and other chemical compounds.

How did Michael Sendivogius think of his own findings at the time? Did he consider them to be "Alchemy", or by that time he saw them as "Chemistry"?
Notes:
According to History of Chemistry

The protoscience of chemistry, alchemy, was unsuccessful in explaining
the nature of matter and its transformations. However, by performing
experiments and recording the results, alchemists set the stage for
modern chemistry. The distinction began to emerge when a clear
differentiation was made between chemistry and alchemy by Robert Boyle
in his work The Sceptical Chymist (1661).
Alchemy and chemistry share an interest in the composition and
properties of matter, and until the 18th century they were not
separate disciplines. The term chymistry has been used to describe the
blend of alchemy and chemistry that existed before that time.

And
Etymology of Chemistry from Alchemy to Chemistry 

Later medieval Latin had alchimia / alchymia "alchemy", alchimicus
"alchemical", and alchimista "alchemist". The mineralogist and
humanist Georg Agricola (died 1555) was the first to drop the Arabic
definite article al-. In his Latin works from 1530 on he exclusively
wrote chymia and chymista in describing activity that we today would
characterize as chemical or alchemical

A:

He referred to his work as alchemy.

Further I liberally do grant and promise you a communication of more Notions than your Patron hath yet imparted to you, concerning as well the theoretical as the practical part of our alchemy.

For therein you shall find displayed and clearly manifested all the secrets of our cabal, and of physick demonstrative with the whole knowledge of alchemical doctrine.

But if you have a desire at they very entrance into this study to have a full knowledge and sincere information in our alchemy they let it suffice our Novum lumen chymicum, with the annexed treatise of Sulphur and the dialogue between Mercury and the Alchemist, for in this book nothing is wanting.

Around the Time of Michael's birth was the first recorded dropping of the al- from alchemy by Georgius Agricola, but this wasn't to make a distinction between the two. Through the 17th century alchemy and chemistry would have been thought of as the same thing. Staring in the early 18th century the two would not be considered synonymous.

