Q:

Why did Hilbert believe consistency implies existence?

I am reading Sieg's "Hilbert's programs and beyond" and I am having difficulty understanding this quote by Hilbert on page 74:

In the Paris Lecture Hilbert re-emphasized and expanded this point by saying: In the case before us, where we are concerned with the axioms of real numbers in arithmetic, the proof of the consistency of the axioms is at the same time the proof of the mathematical existence of the complete system [“complete system” is Ewald’s translation for “Inbegriff ”, WS] of real numbers or of the continuum. Indeed, when the proof for the consistency of the axioms shall be fully accomplished, the doubts, which have been expressed occasionally as to the existence of the complete system of real numbers, will become totally groundless.

Sieg continues with this:

He proposed then to extend this approach to the Cantorian Alephs. Consequently and more generally, the consistency of appropriate axiom systems was to guarantee the existence of sets or, as he put it in 1905, to provide an objective criterion for the consistency of multiplicities.

This is a common theme this book alludes to in Hilbert's early period, before 1920s. Hilbert believed that consistency of an axiomatic system implies the mathematical existence of the model satisfying those axioms. But it seems to me that this is only a consequence of completeness of the system in question and not a general fact at all. Namely, if some A is a syntactically consistent statement, assume that A is not true in any model. Then by completeness we have that ~A, which is true in every model, must be a theorem which contradicts the fact that A is consistent. So an existence of a model is a consequence of a consistent axiomatic system, but after the assumption of completeness, which I don't see mentioned in this book. This leads me to believe that maybe I am gravely misunderstanding the way these words were used in Hilbert's time, or that there might be some other thing I am missing. Why does Hilbert believe that consistency of axioms for real numbers would provide him with existence of the reals?

A:

Hilbert wrote this observation some decades before the formal theories of completeness (and incompleteness) took shape, so you can't expect him to be overly precise with regard to such notions.  The main novelty of Hilbert's remark is precisely this: consistency is sufficient to ensure mathematical existence, and there is no need to argue that the geometric line is present in physical space somewhere or somehow.  This may have been a novelty to his contemporaries but truth be told the observation is already in Leibniz, who spoke of imaginary roots, infinitesimals, and negative numbers as useful fictions,  even though they may seem impossible in the physical world (which Leibniz referred to as the "phenomenal realm").  For further details on Leibniz's fictionalism see this recent article in British Journal for History of Mathematics.  Of course, much of Leibniz's writing was in manuscript form until recently and was not necessarily available to Hilbert's contemporaries.
There is an insightful recent article by Rowe on Cantor and Hilbert; see particularly page 4, second column.

A:

I just want to add some context to Katz's very nice answer. Hilbert's work on foundations occurred in the aftermath of the intuitionistic criticisms by Brouwer and Weyl. (Weyl in particular must have upset Hilbert, as he was Hilbert's student.) They maintained that only constructive proofs of existence counted; "proving" existence by contradiction proved nothing, or so they claimed. Hilbert responded (from Reid's biography of Hilbert):

Taking the Principle of the Excluded Middle from the mathematician is the same as ... prohibiting the boxer the use of his fists.

Reid quotes an exchange between Pólya and Weyl:

"Hermann, that is mathematics in shirt-sleeves" Pólya told him, in other words, not completely attired.
Weyl promptly offered to wager Pólya on the future of two specific propositions which would be eliminated from mathematics if Brouwer's ideas were to be accepted, as Weyl was convinced they would be---and within 20 years. The winner of the wager was to be decided by whether in 1938 Pólya was willing to admit that the following two propositions---

That each [non-empty] bounded set of real numbers has a precise upper bound,
That each infinite set of real numbers has a countable sub-set

---were in fact completely vague "and one could ask of their truth or falsity as little as he could ask of the truth or falsity of the main ideas of Hegel's philosophy'"

Cantor's remark, "The essence of mathematics is its freedom" is often quoted, but the context here are the attacks upon his work by Kronecker, a forerunner of the intuitionists. Dauben's biography of Cantor describes it this way:

For mathematicians, only one test was necessary: once the elements of any mathematical theory were seen to be consistent, then they were mathematically acceptable. Nothing more was required:

and then he quotes Cantor directly:

In particular, in introducing new numbers, mathematics is only obliged to give definitions of them ... As soon as a number satisfies all these conditions, it can and must be regarded as existent and real in mathematics... [Grundlagen einer allgemeinen Mannigfaltigkeitslehre]

This was in defense of Cantor's transfinite numbers. Recall here Hilbert's call-to-arms, "No one shall expel us from the Paradise that Cantor has created for us." This appeared in Hilbert's address, "On the Infinite", where he also said:

Also old objections which we supposed long abandoned still reappear in different forms. For example, the following recently appeared: Although it may be possible to introduce a concept without risk, i.e., without getting contradictions, and even though one can prove that its introduction causes no contradictions to arise, still the introduction of the concept is not thereby justified. Is this not exactly the same objection which was once brought against complex-imaginary numbers when it was said: "True, their use doesn't lead to contradictions. Nevertheless their introduction is unwarranted, for imaginary magnitudes do not exist."? If, apart from proving consistency, the question of the justification of a measure is to have any meaning, it can consist only in acertaining whether the measure is accomplished by commensurate success. Such success is in fact essential, for in mathematics as elsewhere success is the supreme court to whose decisions everyone submits.

A:

Think back to when you learned linear algebra:
\begin{align}
x + y + z & = 2 \\
6x - 4y + 5z & = 31 \\
5x + 2y + 2z & = 13
\end{align}
Does a solution to this system exist? (In this case, yes.) If no solution exists, then applying elementary row operations, you will at some point get
$$
0x + 0y + 0z = 1.
$$
Otherwise a solution exists. Extrapolating from this, one could say that if one can never deduce a contradiction from the assumption of the existence of some mathematical object, then it exists. It was only decades later that Gödel showed that that is wrong, and Hilbert was not at all pleased by Gödel's discovery.
Gödel proved his two famous incompleteness theorems. He also proved what is known as Gödel's completeness theorem, which says that if no contradiction can be deduced from a set of first-order formulas, then a model of those formulas exists. I.e. every such formula with no free variables has either a proof or a counterexample.

