Q:

When did linear algebra become the study of vector spaces?

All of the concepts and terminology central to linear algebra were established in the late 19th century.
Following recent comments by user KCd, that in the early 20th century determinants were the “primary language of linear algebra”, I conclude (rightly or wrongly) that linear algebra originally focused on techniques for solving systems of linear equations and the role of matrices and their determinants.
Today, the focus of linear algebra is the study of  vector spaces and their properties.
Who were the mathematicians that brought about this change of emphasis?  Was there a particular paper or textbook, or was this change simply the result of a natural move towards a more abstract presentation of the subject?

A:

Actually, I think it is not quite the case that what we now think of as "linear algebra" (either terminology or canon of standard results) existed in the late-ish 19th century.
Yes, "matrices" were about determinants... Yes, people knew how to solve (finite) linear equations.
It seems that the most serious impetus to "linear algebra" (linear operators, eigenvalues...) was from infinite-dimensional situations, arising in the integral equations' equivalent versions to solving differential equations, as in Hilbert, Schmidt, et al, c. 1895. Yes, Sturm-Liouville results and ideas (c. 1835) were pose-able in linear algebra, but the terminology did not exist then. In fact, their wonderful ideas were not made rigorous (or even made precise) until Steklov and Bocher after 1890.
Yes, the idea many people (including myself) had/have of the history of linear algebra is that finite-dimensional stuff came first, and then fancier Hilbert-space stuff, ... but apparently that is not at all true! Crazy! :)

A:

Like mathematics in general, Linear Algebra is evolving. Vector spaces were introduced by Sylvester in the 19th century and became a core of Linear Algebra University courses by Halmos ("Finite dimensional vector spaces", 1947) and Gelfand ("Lectures in Linear Algebra", 1948). Motivation came from physics (quantum mechanics in particular).

