Q:

Insulin & break down of different nutrient groups

I have been a type 1 diabetic for over 30 years. According to what I learned during my life from doctors and dietitians, for my age/height/weight, I should take around 6 bread units of carbohydrates per meal (=6*12g= 72g).
The carbohydrates are currently forming around 50-60% of my food intake.
Right now I am looking into increasing my protein intake at the expense of carbohydrates (so that carbs remain around 40% of the daily nutrients), while remaining on the same target calorie amount per day in meals.
As far I understand, insulin regulates all of the nutrient absorption:

[Insulin] regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and protein by
  promoting the absorption of, especially, glucose from the blood into
  fat, liver and skeletal muscle cells
Wikipedia

However, whenever I was talking to doctors, they maintained that I only needed to count insulin needed for eating carbohydrates when planning how much to inject before a meal.
So the question is whether in general less insulin per meal is necessary when consuming more proteins at the expense of carbs? Will the proteins (and fats) be able to be absorbed and used by body without (or with less than usual) insulin? 

A:

It is true that insulin stimulates the uptake of glucose, amino acids (from proteins) and fatty acids into the cells (PubMed, 2011: "Insulin effects in muscle and adipose tissue").
Diabetes.co.uk:

Carbohydrates tend to be the largest factor accounting for changes in
  blood sugar. It’s worth noting that proteins can also affect sugar
  levels as well.

Fats are not specifically mentioned in this or other similar articles.
Most insulin adjustment guidelines, like this one from University of California, SF, mention only carbohydrates, so I'm not sure if you will find more reliable recommendation from random online users. 
By the way, according to this article Tandofline, 2016: "Impact of Diet Composition on Blood Glucose Regulation":

Longer term intake of high protein diets in human has been shown to
  result in whole-body insulin resistance.

