Q:

Right wrist pain from using computer mouse

I'm Shimmy, almost 30ish, Male, 6', 158 lbs.
I'm a heavy computer user and sit in front of my homedesk for long intervals (5-18h daily).
I use the computer mostly for working with text (software development), selecting text, accessing menus, drag-drop etc.
In seasons, depending on how heavily I'm sitting at my desk, I suffer from right hand strain and pain.
It might be due the wrong chair height or desk setup, wrong sitting, hand rest or whatever. Please help me find out what's causing the problem, what does this kind of pain signal, and what can I do to avoid it and any related injury.  
I suspect it might be because of the hand-rest, is it related? If yes, should I rest/unrest my hand on it? Should I completely remove it? Should I lift my chair a bit? Any other mouse set ups and other alternatives to consider?

In the preceding figure, I tried to mark on this picture the channels I feel pain, but the most of it is either at the wrist knuckle (between arm and hand), and at my hand top.
I use the Tzora Rialto chair, not that I believe anyone knows, but it's a pretty customizable chair, I just don't know to choose the right setup (you can see the available customizations in their website, see the middle tab on the bottom):

Here're some pictures of my desk setup and my hand as I normally sit on it:

A:

After experimenting different motions with my mouse for some while, I'm now certain it has to do with the effort spent in mouse-movement.
I feel that it's the hand-movement that causes the pain rather than the clicks.
Anyway my system (Win8.1) is configured with max speed, but I believe this already fits in another scope.
Which led me to the following conclusions about the mouse environment, which I'm sure when addressed, will solve my hand-pain issues.

Wired mouse (as opposed to wireless) not only slows down the mouse but also restrains the mouse and forces the hand with having to extra-pull the mouse
A smooth and clean mouse pad - to avoid mouse obstacles and smooth moving of it
A clean mouse bottom
A light mouse
Led of mouse that responds very efficiently

I wish there would be a hovering mouse. That would surely solve lots of problems.
Will keep on updating after I fix up my environment. It might take a while until I go shopping but I sure will update once I have news.
UPDATE
As some suggested here, I started using the mouse with my left hand, which is also a great solution. Indeed a big challenge at first, but the advantages are not only health and no-pain, but I think it also develops the sensitivity of the left hand, wrist and fingers.

A:

The image you drew to image the pain is almost perfectly aligned with your wrist muscles, specifically: Book

Extensor Carpi Radialis Longus
Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevis
Extensor Carpi Ulnaris

Do you feel the pain on the palm (anterior) side too?
The above muscles work with: Book

Flexor Carpi Radialis
Flexor Carpi Ulnaris

to create a ulnar (towards pinky) and radial (towards thumb) deviation (movement) of the wrist
If during your 5-18 hour's daily you make extensive use of the mouse, wrist pain makes sense.
The best thing to do is to rest the hand from making these movements which means stop using the mouse.
You say you use Windows, but if you are dealing heavily with text I would actually suggest using Vi or Vim. Vi is designed around not using the mouse and using keyboard shortcuts for everything. I'm fairly sure Vi is available for windows Search

