Q:

Why am I advised not to eat immediately before exercise?

It is commonly said that, after eating, you should wait 2-3 hours before exercising. It isn't recommended to eat and right afterwards to exercise (or swim).
But I haven't really understood why that is. Does this bad behavior affect me immediately (if I'm in robust health) or does it affect me in the long term? Αnd how?

A:

You have two main nervous systems when it comes to energy usage / conservation.

Sympathetic

Increased Heart Rate 
Dilation of bronchioles [increased intake /
exhalation of air] 
Dilation of Pupils 
Vaso constriction in skin    [tightening of blood vessels near skin]
Vaso dilation in skeletal    muscles [widening of blood vessels near
muscles]
Slowing of    peristalsis conversion of glycogen  to glucose in liver
secretion of    epinephrine and norephinephrine [ hormones to
increase heart rate]

Parasympathetic

Constriction of pupil
Constriction of bronchioles
Slowing of heart rate
Increase secretion of digestive glands

Tabers Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary (21)
When you decide to eat, the parasympatheic nervous system begins conserving energy so that more of it goes to digesting food and other bodily functions.
When you decide to exercise, the sympathic nervous system begins expending energy so that you can do exercise x.
In both of these, the other nervous system is reduced, permitting more energy to be given as needed.
When you both consume food and exercise the body is placed in a tricky position. It can't say no to digesting food, it will begin to rot (gas anyone?) and it needs that food to generate more energy later on. But it can't say no to exercise, that could very realistically kill you in a survival situation.
So it does a compromise, both will function at decreased levels.
This doesn't mean you can't eat food while exercising. As otherwise mentioned, marathoners do consume food. But it's unlikely they will eat complex foods like fat or protein and go straight to simple foods like carbohydrates since it is easier for the body to break it down. Despite simple foods, energy must be used to digest so it makes exercising harder. But the benefit of the energy is more quickly greater then not consuming it. Consuming too much can override this though. 1 There aren't any long term marathoners I know of that eat a thanksgiving dinner prior and expect to make it very far.

A:

It takes energy (and blood) to digest the food. So when you eat shortly before exercising, you need the energy at two places (digestion and muscles) and the muscles win.
This does not mean it is bad to eat before (or during) exercise. Some exercises (like running a marathon) requires you to replenish the energy (and the food) but you can't eat anything. You need to time your consumption. (Heavy foods take longer to digest so the time gap needs to be longer). 
I have most of this information from a book on sport injuries. But I have found a reasonable reference.

