Q:

Is pneumonia contagious?

If a healthy person is near a person that has pneumonia, is there any risk of infection for the former?
If so, how is it passed on? Is it via coughing / sneezing or skin contact?

A:

Mostly it depends on the cause of the pneumonia. 
Pneumonia is the name for infection or inflammation of the lungs. It can be primary or secondary. A good example of the difference is pneumonia caused by the influenza virus.
Influenza affects the lungs directly. That's a primary pneumonia, and yes, this is contagious, as the air one coughs out contains droplets carrying the virus. Pneumonia caused by viruses is more common in children and young adults (except for influenza, which affects all age groups), and is therefore contagious to people who have never been exposed to the virus - usually other children/young adults. In general, primary pneumonia tends to be more contagious, and besides viruses, it can be caused by mycoplasma and tuberculosis. These are contagious.
The damage done by the influenza virus in the lungs leaves the person susceptible to attack by bacteria that would not normally gain a foothold in the lung. This is secondary pneumonia, and because your lungs are not damaged - and you already have the same bacteria in your mouth and throat as someone with secondary pneumonia but are not ill - you are much less likely to get sick from being exposed to bacterial pneumonia than from someone with viral pneumonia.
Similarly, pneumonia is more common in smokers with damaged lungs, or in people with some degree of decreased immunocompetence. Alcohol, other drugs, and people with swallowing disorders can aspirate leading to pneumonia; surgery or chest injuries where deep breathing hurts can also lead to pneumonia. These pneumonias aren't likely to be contagious. Finally, some pneumonias are caused by exposure to chemicals. Since there's no infectious agent involved, you can't be affected.
There are now vaccines against some of the bacterial pneumonias, so vaccines against influenza and others help.
Since you might not know what kind of pneumonia someone has, practicing good hygiene is always a good idea.
Pneumonia Mayo Clinic
Pneumonia

