Q:

Can you get a yeast infection in your mouth from oral sex?

I recently had sex with a woman who seems to have had a yeast infection. That's what I thought, because she had lots of white dots in her vagina and my doctor told me that this is a fungus. I've seen it for the first time, so I'm not entirely sure.
However, I gave her oral sex (no unusual smell or taste noticed) and after that I got something that seemed like a tonsillitis. I get tonsillitis all the time, that's why I'll get my tonsils removed next month.
However, this time I tried two different antibiotics, but none of them worked. Also, no painkillers, not even Tramadol helped. I had to go into the hospital and got two different intravenous antibiotics. After 3 days and another 5 days using standard antibiotics, the "tonsillitis" was cured.
That's what I was wondering... It hurt a lot. I couldn't even eat. I've never had a tonsillitis that bad and I certainly never went to the hospital because of one. Also it was noticeable that the skin of the deeper part of the throat was irritated a lot.
So this has left me curious: is it possible to get a yeast infection in the mouth from sex?

A:

The yeast (fungus) that causes thrush or yeast infection in both men and women are of the genus Candida.  These fungi can be found as normal flora on skin however outgrowth results in yeast infection.  Candida albicans, which is most likely the strain of thrush you saw on the lady, can be transmitted by both sex and oral sex.  Most likely your mucosal immune system will fight it, but there are cases of transmission especially in HIV patients (Francoise, et al., 1997).  If you notice a fever, lethargy, and white irritating spots in the oral cavity, I would seek help from a health professional.  The infection is easily treated.
Antibiotics will not work for fungal infection, as the mechanism of action is different from fungicide.  Tonsillitis is usually caused by either a viral infection such as Herpes Simplex Virus, or a bacterial infection. Again, treatable and highly recommend seeking professional help.
Update: Tonsils are a lymphatic organ, meaning it contains specialised immune cells that work together to identify invading pathogens and clear it.  Tonsillitis happens due to an inflammatory reaction towards an invading pathogen.  Some people have severe inflammation resulting in partial or complete blockage of their airway, thus being potentially life threatening. In these cases, the patient is recommended to undergo tonsillectomy - the removal of their tonsil.  If your tonsillitis is not life threatening (an just an inconvenience) it may not be necessary to remove it.  Again I would consult with your doctor, as there may be indications for removing it and contraindications as well that are specific to your medical history [4,5].

Yeast Infection (vaginal) - Mayo Clinic
Oral thrus Causes -Mayo Clinic
Oral transmission of Candida albicans between partners in HIV‐infected couples could contribute to dissemination of fluconazole‐resistant isolates
Tonsillopharyngitis - Merck Manual
Enlarged Tonsils and Adenoids - Merck Manual

