Q:

Assessing bias for in vitro cell culture studies?

I'm writing a systematic review on endothelial cell cultures undergoing a certain treatment. In all studies included, the cultures come from an immortalized cell line. I'm assessing bias in the studies, following the Cochrane tool for critical appraisal, and noticed that many of the protocols do not describe random allocation of treatments. Furthermore, the Cochrane tool is specifically developed for RCTs, and a few of the questions feel only loosely applicable to the specific conditions of in vitro studies. As far as I know, there's no critical appraisal tool specifically developed for in vitro studies of cells, only human or animal studies.
I'm probably getting caught in the weeds here, but I have a few questions. Would random allocation of treatment vs no treatment potentially harm validity, if all the cells come from the same cell line and are essentially identical? If we deem random allocation non-applicable to the specific context of in vitro cell culture experiments, is it kosher to modify the Cochrane tool and omit random allocation as a criterion?
I posted this to the academia stackexchange first, but I was recommended to post it here. Hope this makes sense. Thanks for your help.

A:

The main purposes of randomization in this context would be to avoid experimenter/observer bias and any temporal biases in the experimentation, rather than primarily trying to control for differences in the individual cell samples.
An example of a temporal bias might be that a filter in the lab is dirty, or a new reagent bottle is opened that is somehow different from the first, atmospheric/environmental conditions in the lab are different (seasonal changes in humidity or temperature, for example), or experimenter practice, or changing personnel. If a lab runs all the control experiments first, and then all the test experiments, they may have systematic differences due to these environmental changes. Or, the result of an assay might depend on precision of pipetting or measuring reagents. Or, a new student who joins the lab to run some test samples may be doing things slightly different than a previous one who did the controls.
Some of these problems might be solvable not by randomization but by pairing test and control samples in a non-randomized way, but that could also introduce biases. For example, if all the test samples are always run on the left, and the sun shines in from a window on the left, that could affect the test samples differently than the control.
Experimenter/observer bias might involve expectations of certain results that change how they are evaluated. Even if the measurements themselves are objective in some way, like an output from a machine, experimenters can bias the results if they, say, feel like an output is "too low" and therefore decide something is wrong and they re-run the sample, but they only do this when they're expecting a high result (e.g., with the test group).
It's hard to come up with any sort of comprehensive list of possible problems, but yeah, in general, lacking randomization even in a fairly standardized in vitro setting can harm validity.

