Q:

Has the Covid-19 prevalence study on entire population of Vò been formally published somewhere?

It's been mentioned in another answer that

In COVID-19, The University of Padua, Veneto Region and the Red Cross tested the population of Vò, Italy, 3300 people, to establish the natural history of the virus, the transmission dynamics and categories of risk. " they found >50 of those who tested positive to be asymptomatic” according to Professor Sergio Romagnani.

I'm aware that a Covid-19 prevalence study on the [entire population of the] Diamond Princess ship (3,711 passengers and crew) has been published in Eurosurveillance. Has this comparable (in size) study on an entire Italian town been published somewhere?
(I see a later issue of Eurosurveillance has a larger study on Lombardy, but it doesn't mention Vò specifically. Also, this latter issue has a 2nd study on the Diamond Princess.)

A:

It took a while, but it has now been published in Nature:
"Suppression of a SARS-CoV-2 outbreak in the Italian municipality of Vo’"
by Enrico Lavezzo, Elisa Franchin, […]Andrea Crisanti, Nature (2020). Published: 30 June 2020
This seems to be the same content as the preprint linked and discussed by @Fizz in their answer.
Abstract

On 21 February 2020, a resident of the municipality of Vo’, a small
town near Padua (Italy), died of pneumonia due to severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection1. This was
the first coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19)-related death detected in
Italy since the detection of SARS-CoV-2 in the Chinese city of Wuhan,
Hubei province2. In response, the regional authorities imposed the
lockdown of the whole municipality for 14 days3. Here we collected
information on the demography, clinical presentation, hospitalization,
contact network and the presence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in
nasopharyngeal swabs for 85.9% and 71.5% of the population of Vo’ at
two consecutive time points. From the first survey, which was
conducted around the time the town lockdown started, we found a
prevalence of infection of 2.6% (95% confidence interval (CI):
2.1–3.3%). From the second survey, which was conducted at the end of the lockdown, we found a prevalence of 1.2% (95% CI: 0.8–1.8%).
Notably, 42.5% (95% CI: 31.5–54.6%) of the confirmed SARS-CoV-2
infections detected across the two surveys were asymptomatic (that is,
did not have symptoms at the time of swab testing and did not develop
symptoms afterwards). The mean serial interval was 7.2 days (95% CI:
5.9–9.6). We found no statistically significant difference in the viral load of symptomatic versus asymptomatic infections (P = 0.62 and
0.74 for E and RdRp genes, respectively, exact Wilcoxon–Mann–Whitney test). This study sheds light on the frequency of asymptomatic
SARS-CoV-2 infection, their infectivity (as measured by the viral
load) and provides insights into its transmission dynamics and the
efficacy of the implemented control measures.

