Q:

Is exceeding the US RDA for vitamin C dangerous?

When I travel I take vitamin C supplements. The product I use has 1000 mg of vitamin C. When traveling I take multiple doses every day. This way exceeds the US RDA of 90 mg for adult males. Is it bad to take too much vitamin C?

A:

Overloading on vitamin C won't cause death. At around 1000 mg, you will probably have nausea, diarrhea, and stomach aches. 2000 mg is the daily limit, and if you get that high, you will experience more severe side-affects such as severe headaches, vomiting, heartburn, insomnia, and even kidney stones. You probably shouldn't have that much vitamin C, so if you have to take multiple 1000 mg doses everyday, you should talk to your doctor.
In conclusion, taking that much vitamin C is not necessarily "dangerous", but it can lead to major discomfort and could possible put you in the hospital.

Vitamin Overdose: Taking Too Many Vitamins Can Be Bad For Your Health, But How Many Would It Take To Kill You?

A:

Vitamin C (ascorbic acid - an antioxidant and reducing agent) is water soluble (so dietary excesses not absorbed), and excesses in the blood rapidly excreted in the urine. It exhibits remarkably low toxicity , however LD50 in humans remains unknown given lack of any accidental or intentional poisoning death data.
Government recommended intake:

United States vitamin C dose recommendations:

Recommended Dietary Allowance (adult male):  90 mg per day
Recommended Dietary Allowance (adult female):    75 mg per day
Tolerable Upper Intake Level (adult male):   2,000 mg per day
Tolerable Upper Intake Level (adult female): 2,000 mg per day

40 milligrams per day or 280 milligrams per week taken all at once: the United Kingdom's Food Standards Agency,
45 milligrams per day 300 milligrams per week: the World Health Organization,
80 milligrams per day: the European Commission's Council on nutrition labeling,
90 mg/day (males) and 75 mg/day (females): Health Canada 2007,
60–95 milligrams per day: United States' National Academy of Sciences,
100 milligrams per day: Japan's National Institute of Health and Nutrition, however the NIHN did not set a Tolerable Upper Intake Level.

Based on US upper level recommendations taking up to 1g per day is still fine, however it depends on your body tolerance and previous intake (as for some 5-10g could be still normal), especially if your body needs it for optimum health and to meet stresses or infections. Although the body's maximal store of vitamin C is largely determined by the renal threshold for blood.
However if you exceed the upper limits of your body/bowel tolerance, in general any drug overdose is dangerous causing some side effects. Relatively large doses of ascorbic acid may cause indigestion, particularly when taken on an empty stomach and it can case diarrhoea. In one trial in 1936 (6g doses) toxic manifestations were observed in 5/29 adults and 4/93. Symptoms of Vitamin C overdose could include: skin rashes, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, facial flushing, headache, fatigue and disturbed sleep. As well as itchy skin (prurutis), dizziness and abdominal pain.
It's usually advised to take smaller doses more frequently (e.g. ever hour), than larger doses in short amount of time in order to simulate endogenous production and increase your tolerance threshold. On the other hand your body would "learn" daily intake and it will expect similar doses on daily basis.
Source: Vitamin C

A:

There are two important types of vitamins.
Fat soluble and Water Soluble.
Your body will store fat soluble vitamins but will discard excess water soluble vitamins in your urine. Because of this fat soluble vitamins carry a greater risk of toxicity while water soluble carry a greater risk of deficiency.
Some examples of fat soluble 1
A, D, E, K
and water soluble 2
B, C
You're fine with taking 1k of C everyday but it's unlikely to benefit you anymore once the body absorbs the 90mg it needs. Splitting a pill up into quarters (250mg) and consuming it with food (to increase chance of absorption) could work too.
As for the dangerous part, yes. Despite what it may seem, more does not equal better. Balance and moderation is key. Anything is dangerous if overdosed, including water, oxygen, or ____

