Q:

How much risk am I taking by joining my coworkers for smoke breaks?

Several of my coworkers take regular smoke breaks outside the office a few times per day. I don't smoke, but I join them once or twice a day. There are a few reasons why I find it valuable to do this:

I enjoy the break, and the conversation
Spending time with these coworkers builds my rapport with them
Most importantly, valuable business-related information is often discussed

I'm aware of some of the research around secondhand smoke. In particular, I'm aware that it's considered a no-threshold toxicant, which means that the risk increases with exposure, and that even a small amount of exposure can be harmful. Furthermore, the effects of secondhand smoke are well-known to be harmful.
So why the question? I'm trying to weigh the costs and benefits. Essentially everything we do risks some harm for some reward. (E.g., I gather that bonfires are also a no-threshold toxicant.) Presumably the many people in my situation would like a more nuanced answer as to how much risk am I taking by standing outside next to smokers for 15-30 minutes per day?

A:

Your question has no correct answer. It is up to take the pain for a gain. What I would do is look for other times when I can build rapports.
However, studies show that non-smokers exposed to second-hand smoke are at risk for many of the health problems associated with direct smoking.
Risk on respiratory system: asthma, bronchitis and pneumonia.
Other risks: lung cancer, heart disease and stroke.
Passive smoking effects
A good explanation from SO
Risk of autoimmune disease
Below Quotes are from the fact sheet

It is estimated that secondhand smoke caused nearly 34,000 heart disease deaths each year during 2005–2009 among adult nonsmokers in the United States.
Secondhand smoke exposure caused more than 7,300 lung cancer deaths each year during 2005–2009 among adult nonsmokers in the United States
Since 1964, approximately 2,500,000 nonsmokers have died from health problems caused by exposure to secondhand smoke.

If each cigarette lasts for 6 mins, if you inhale even 5% of smoke passively (which is very less than the real scenario) from each smoker.
If you stand with 2 smokers for 24 mins in a day,
2 smokers x 6 mins x 5% x 4 times = 240% per day i.e equivalent of 2.4 cigarette smokes.
So in short Yes, it is highly risky

