Q:

Is it possible to get a secondary infection following a flu shot

Can a flu shot entail a risk of secondary infection like a real flu?
I just had my flu shot today and the resulting faux-flu is hitting me hard with fever, cough, aches, etc. I was wondering if the immune response itself is what weakens me from other pathogens, or if there is something intrinsic to a true infection which creates that dilemma. 
In particular, I was wondering if I need to take it easy to avoid secondary infection or if these sensations are otherwise an illusion and I am effectively as healthy as usual.

A:

To your questions:

Is it possible to get a secondary infection following a flu shot?
Can a flu shot entail a risk of secondary infection like a real flu?

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has a whole webpage on the effectiveness of flu vaccine:
http://www.cdc.gov/flu/about/qa/vaccineeffect.htm
Here some points which should provide some further understanding:

According to recent studies conducted by the CDC, flu vaccination leads to a 50% to 60% reduction in the risk of flu illness among the overall population
The factors that influence the effectiveness of flu vaccine: the age and associated disease (comorbidities) of the person being vaccinated and the similarity between the flu viruses the flu vaccine is designed to protect against and the prevalence of the flu viruses in your community.

Here an essential extract from the CDC website:

During years when the flu vaccine is not well matched to circulating
  viruses, it’s possible that no benefit from flu vaccination may be
  observed.

Finally, influenza vaccination does not protect against other viruses that cause flu-like symptoms. 

There are many other viruses besides flu viruses that can result in
  flu-like illness* (also known as influenza-like illness or "ILI") that
  spread during the flu season. These non-flu viruses include rhinovirus
  (one cause of the "common cold") and respiratory syncytial virus
  (RSV), which is the most common cause of severe respiratory illness in
  young children, as well as a leading cause of death from respiratory
  illness in those aged 65 years and older.

Hope this helps!

