Q:

Teeth brushing technique: what to avoid, and how is it better done?

By "better done" I mean more efficiently and without causing harm to gums, teeth, and other parts of the mouth. By what to avoid I'm referring to things that can harm, or not be effective.
There's a million different ways to brush the teeth, but some might irritate the gums, some can cause bleeding, and some might not be very effective. Assuming that the teeth and mouth are healthy in general: what should we avoid? How should we be doing it?

A:

I'm not a dentist, and I would look forward to reading other answers (I believe this topic is misunderstood and there is a lack of guidance generally), but these are my top tips:
Don't brush straight after eating
Your mouth becomes acidic after eating, and this can last for 60 minutes or so. So brushing immediately after eating is a bad idea, no matter what you've eaten, because the acidity will temporarily weaken the enamel. 
Brush lightly
I believe you can brush too hard, and I've heard that brushing should be more like a gentle tickle, without forcing the brush against your teeth, but I think this is hard to get across, as it is rather subjective. The very term 'brushing' also refers to activities that require physical effort and involve forcing things to move, eg brushing the floor or brushing your hair straight, so I'm not surprised if people over do it. Television has also been flooded with toothbrush adverts over the years, which normally contain an animation illustrating particles being 'brushed off' the tooth, and this gives the impression that some force is required.
Also, use a toothbrush with soft bristles. 
Don't rinse
If you rinse your mouth immediately after brushing, most of the residual toothpaste will be washed out completely, but if you don't rinse then the active ingredients are given a bit longer to help clean your teeth. 
Use a circular action 
If you use a small circular action when you brush, then you'll increase the contact of the bristles with the gaps between your teeth, and the circular motion can help to ease out little bits. If you simply move the toothbrush over and along the teeth, there will be less contact with the gaps.   

