Q:

How to stop or even reverse cavities?

This is not a question that requires any knowledge of dentistry. All I ask for is your personal experience.
What do you in case of a cavity and don't want to go dentist because you fear the side effects of drilling?

A:

I can speak from personal experience, and from experience working as a physical chemist peripherally associated with a group researching dental care.
My personal experience is that I have a few lesions that my various dentists over the last couple of decades have decided not to fill because they are not serious and not getting any worse. So a dentist will not necessarily reach for their drill at every opportunity.
My research experience is that at least in vitro enamel can remineralise, but you are talking about incremental improvements and nothing approaching total repair of a cavity. Any major cavity will not repair itself.
It is impossible for you to assess the damage to your teeth because you have neither the skills nor the equipment required. Your dentist has both, and you should respect their judgement. Your dentist should probably not have been impatient with your questions, but bear in mind that by questioning him you are implying he does not know what he is talking about and even the most saintly of dentists will get fed up with this eventually.

A:

There are really two different questions posed here:

How to stop or even reverse cavities?

This is currently only partially possible in the sense of slowing down the further spread and development of caries.
Eliminate acids and sugars from your diet, that includes starches and other cariogenic carbohydrates. Practice impeccable oral hygiene with lots of fluoride toothpaste, interdental cleanig with mouth washes, tooth picks and floss. Drink lots of green tea and milk. All of this – and more, if believe what's floating around the net popularly and mostly falsely – has very limited effects and cannot fully replace a visit to the dentist under any normal circumstances.    
Cavities cannot be "reversed", that is rebuilt and filled up to a fully working intact tooth. Not with miracle supplements, exotic foods and not even by a dentist, except that a dentist might have suitable substances to fill the cavity.
That answers hypothetically a question with unrealistic goals. 
And the real question:

What do you in case of a cavity and don't want to go dentist because you fear the side effects of drilling?

First thing is of course something of the past in this case: try to prevent the cavity from forming in the first place. this is called prophylaxis and includes the usual: limit carbohydrate contact with teeth, practice oral hygiene and visit a dentist, not to let her drill anything, but to remove calculus and get protective lacquer layers. But as this is apparently too late in a case with developed cavities:
Someone with a cavity who does not want to go to a dentist because of the fear of drilling has to go to the dentist and let her drill and fill. The biggest problem in the scenario presented is not the procedure itself but the anxious anticipation that prevents a necessary and very, very probably best option.
The secret of success is mentioning the anxiety involved and then requesting at least one of the following or even two drugs at once. Most of the time the request will be preempted by an offer:

a large dose of local anaesthetic – for example Lidocaine – that will prevent any pain from being registered in the brain
an adequate dose of a one-time anxiety reliever or even a sedative that will make your brain not only dull to the pain but utterly uninterested in the effects for a while that is long enough until the procedure is over

Dentists can also prescribe medications such as antibiotics, sedatives, and any other drugs used in patient management.
Wikipedia: Dentistry#Dental treatment

Current methods of sedation in dental patients - a systematic review of the literature Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2016 Sep; 21(5): e579–e586.
Published online 2016 Jul 31. doi:10.4317/medoral.20981
WebMD: Sedation Dentistry: Can You Really Relax in the Dentist's Chair?
MouthHealthy, ADA, Anesthesia and Sedation
ADA Guidelines for the Use of Sedation and General Anesthesia by Dentists 2016
SedationDentstry4U
Inform yourself before requesting any of that and do not fixate on a specific combination, but discuss this with your dentist. 

