Q:

What causes twitching eyelids? Can anything be done about them?

Twitching eyelids are common. The medical name for this is blepharospasm:

Eye twitching can come and go unpredictably for a few days, weeks or months. The spasms don't hurt, but they can be annoying. In its most common form, eye twitching is harmless and stops on its own, although it may recur occasionally. 

It can occur often throughout the day. The eyelid will rhythmically twitch. It will stop on it's own if nothing is done. Sometimes if it's pinched, it stops.
What causes this, and what can someone do to prevent it?
I've read this could be related to tiredness or stress. Are there other causes?

A:

"Normal" eyelid twitching can possibly be caused or be made worse by lack of sleep, or too much caffeine or stress. That information can be found unsourced on a lot of websites, including with such qualifiers as "many experts say". I couldn't find a single source - which doesn't mean it doesn't exist, or say that these things don't cause eyelid twitches.
The Kellogg Eye Centre at the University of Michigan just says:

The cause of minor eyelid twitch is unknown.

And for treatment:

Minor eyelid twitches require no treatment as they usually resolve spontaneously. Reducing stress, using warm soaks, correction of any refractive error, and lubrication of the eye with artificial tears may help. Some ophthalmologists recommend reducing caffeine usage

The University of Maryland Medical Center mentions, just like a lot of sources, caffeine, sleep and stress

The most common things that make the muscle in your eyelid twitch are fatigue, stress, and caffeine.

And for treatment:

Eyelid twitching most often goes away without treatment. In the meantime, the following steps may help:

Get more sleep.
Drink less caffeine.
Lubricate your eyes with eye drops

If twitching is severe or lasts a long time, small injections of botulinum toxin can control the spasms

However, since you specifically mentioned blepharospasm, I am going to include some information on what's called benign essential blepharospasm. That's a condition that worsens with age, and often ends up including more face muscles than just the eyelids. It's probably caused at least in part by genetics, but the exact gene responsible for it remains unclear. Treatment for it includes medication, for example dopamine inhibitors, botox injections, and even surgery to remove the eyelid muscle.
Interestingly, for benign essential blepharospasm, drinking coffee might actually delay onset of the disease.
Sources
Kellogg Eye Center
University of Maryland Medical Center
Benign essential blepharospasm
Benign essential blepharospasm @ rarediseases.org
Update on blepharospasm

