Q:

Is it true that measles vaccine lead to poor sexual potency for men?

Infectiologist at local medical clinic told me that vaccination against measles is not recommended for men because it harms sexual potency. She said though that it is OK to vaccinate children against measles, but for men it is not good. Is it correct?

A:

The official stance on this 'issue' is:

MMR vaccine side-effects
  (Measles, Mumps, and Rubella)
What are the risks from MMR vaccine?
A vaccine, like any medicine, is capable of causing serious problems,
  such as severe allergic reactions.
The risk of MMR vaccine causing serious harm, or death, is extremely
  small.
Getting MMR vaccine is much safer than getting measles, mumps or
  rubella.
Most people who get MMR vaccine do not have any serious problems with
  it.
Mild problems

Fever (up to 1 person out of 6)
Mild rash (about 1 person out of 20)
Swelling of glands in the cheeks or neck (about 1 person out of 75)

If these problems occur, it is usually within 6-14 days after the
  shot. They occur less often after the second dose.
Moderate problems

Seizure (jerking or staring) caused by fever (about 1 out of 3,000 doses)
Temporary pain and stiffness in the joints, mostly in teenage or adult women (up to 1 out of 4)
Temporary low platelet count, which can cause a bleeding disorder (about 1 out of 30,000 doses)

Severe problems (very rare)
Serious allergic reaction (less than 1 out of a million doses) Several
  other severe problems have been reported after a child gets MMR
  vaccine, including:
  - Deafness
  - Long-term seizures, coma, or lowered consciousness
  - Permanent brain damage
These are so rare that it is hard to tell whether they are caused by
  the vaccine.

And this leads to the recommendation:

MMR (Measles, Mumps, & Rubella) Vaccine
What You Need to Know
Why get vaccinated? Measles, mumps, and rubella are serious diseases.
  Before vaccines they were very common, especially among children.
Measles 
  Measles virus causes rash, cough, runny nose, eye irritation, and
  fever. It can lead to ear infection, pneumonia, seizures (jerking and
  staring), brain damage, and death. 
Mumps
  Mumps virus causes fever, headache, muscle pain, loss of appetite, and
  swollen glands. It can lead to deafness, meningitis (infection of the
  brain and spinal cord covering), painful swelling of the testicles or
  ovaries, and rarely sterility. 
Rubella (German Measles)
  Rubella virus causes rash, arthritis (mostly in women), and mild
  fever. If a woman gets rubella while she is pregnant, she could have a
  miscarriage or her baby could be born with serious birth defects.
  These diseases spread from person to person through the air. You can
  easily catch them by being around someone who is already infected.
Measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine can protect children (and
  adults) from all three of these diseases.
Thanks to successful vaccination programs these diseases are much less
  common in the U.S. than they used to be. But if we stopped vaccinating
  they would return.
Who should get MMR vaccine and when?
Children should get 2 doses of
  MMR vaccine:
First Dose: 12-15 months of age Second Dose: 4-6 years of age (may be
  given earlier, if at least 28 days after the 1st dose) Some infants
  younger than 12 months should get a dose of MMR if they are traveling
  out of the country. (This dose will not count toward their routine
  series.)
Some adults should also get MMR vaccine: Generally, anyone 18 years of
  age or older who was born after 1956 should get at least one dose of
  MMR vaccine, unless they can show that they have either been
  vaccinated or had all three diseases.
MMR vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines.
Children between 1 and 12 years of age can get a "combination" vaccine
  called MMRV, which contains both MMR and varicella (chickenpox)
  vaccines. There is a separate Vaccine Information Statement for MMRV.
Some people should not get MMR vaccine or should wait. Anyone who has
  ever had a life-threatening allergic reaction to the antibiotic
  neomycin, or any other component of MMR vaccine, should not get the
  vaccine. Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies. Anyone who
  had a life-threatening allergic reaction to a previous dose of MMR or
  MMRV vaccine should not get another dose. Some people who are sick at
  the time the shot is scheduled may be advised to wait until they
  recover before getting MMR vaccine. Pregnant women should not get MMR
  vaccine. Pregnant women who need the vaccine should wait until after
  giving birth. Women should avoid getting pregnant for 4 weeks after
  vaccination with MMR vaccine. Tell your doctor if the person getting
  the vaccine: Has HIV/AIDS, or another disease that affects the immune
  system Is being treated with drugs that affect the immune system, such
  as steroids Has any kind of cancer Is being treated for cancer with
  radiation or drugs Has ever had a low platelet count (a blood
  disorder) Has gotten another vaccine within the past 4 weeks Has
  recently had a transfusion or received other blood products Any of
  these might be a reason to not get the vaccine, or delay vaccination
  until later.

Which leads to the conclusion that there might have been a slight misunderstanding in doctor-patient communication? As a very, very rare reaction this is a perfectly possible secondary outcome scenario. (Meaning two things here. First: this might be caused only indirectly, because two: if you have a reaction or experience more serious side-effects it is more than likely that these performance issues are not of primary concern) 
As something to base a general recommendation against vaccination for men this seems implausible, to say the least. If this is indeed a myth portrayed  accurately than some more reading might be required.
Regarding sexual and reproductive health this vaccine actually improves outcomes in preventing mumps related swollen testes (mumps orchtitis) and infertility (from mumps epididymitis) , and possibly impotence (erectile disfunction).

