Q:

Does a hormone PTSH exist?

It's known that a hormone called TSH (thyroid stimulate hormone) does exist  and it's secreted in the pituitary gland. But my question is about a hormone which secreted from the pituitary gland too but it stimulates the parathyroid glands. 
I am asking it because I read this article and I'm not sure how the science refers to it currently. 

A:

In short: It seems, there is not enough evidence to say that parathyroid-stimulating hormone secreted from the pituitary gland exists in humans. 
A) Parathyroid Stimulating Hormone (PTH)
Some texts use the term parathyroid-stimulating hormone with the acronym PTH or in a way that suggests they actually meant parathyroid hormone.
Journal of Cell Science (2008):

...and parathyroid hormone-related peptide receptor (PTH1R), whose
  stimulation by parathyroid stimulating hormone (PTH) increases the
  intracellular levels of cAMP, IP3, DAG and Ca2+...

Respiratory subtype of panic disorder: Can serum phosphate levels be a possible outcome to group cognitive-behavior therapy? (Journal of Affective Disorders, 2018):

All patients underwent 12 structured sessions of group
  cognitive-behavioral therapy for PD (Otto and Deveney, 2005) and had
  their blood collected at baseline to assess fasting glucose, complete
  blood count, thyroid stimulating hormone, parathyroid stimulating
  hormone, ionized calcium, creatinine and phosphate levels.

Chronic Mucocutaneous Candidiasis Workup (Emedicine, 2017):

Other endocrine screening tests that may be considered include
  follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, prolactin,
  testosterone, parathyroid-stimulating hormone, calcium, phosphate,
  magnesium, and short synacthen test.

Dermatology Online Journal (2014):

According to current guidelines for high risk patients (i.e. those
  that are genetically confirmed to have MEN-1), annual laboratory
  studies to include calcium, parathyroid stimulating hormone,
  prolactin, gastrin...

^^From this NIDDK article, it is clear that parathyroid hormone is meant above.

B) Parathyroid Stimulating Hormone (PSH)
I've found a single text that mentions parathyroid stimulating hormone with the acronym PSH, in which they clearly suggest it is secreted from the pituitary gland and stimulates the release of parathyroid hormone.
Cranial Endocrine Glands Represented at Intertragic Notch (ScienceDirect, 2014):

103.e Parathyrotrophin Hormones (PSH, Parathyroid-Stimulating Hormone)    [IT 2] Location: Found on the most central part of wall of
  intertragic notch, below LM_9.
Function: The parathyroid pituitary hormone PSH regulates parathormone
  release by the parathyroid gland. This point facilitates calcium
  metabolism and reduces muscle tetanus.

C) I haven't found any text in which parathyroid-stimulating hormone in humans would be mentioned with the acronym PTSH (like in this article linked from the question, which mentions PTSH in cows).

