Q:

Can COVID-19 vaccines cause birth defects?

Have regulators historically allowed enough time for Phase 3 trials to show that a vaccine does not cause congenital defects? Are they making an exception for Covid vaccines?
Because the Pfizer/Biontech vaccine for coronavirus is now available for all over-16s in Israel (see https://www.ft.com/content/0cdc8563-1e6d-4089-bedb-b0f675c0d683 ), but I wonder whether it would not have been better to wait a few months to give Phase 3 trials a chance to yield data on congenital defects after some participants give birth. (Phase 3 trials started on July 27 according to   https://www.pfizer.com/news/press-release/press-release-detail/pfizer-and-biontech-conclude-phase-3-study-covid-19-vaccine ). What do we know about the Pfizer/Biontech vaccine which would make researchers confident that it doesn't cause congenital defects? What data do we have to show it does or doesn't? When did/would we get this data? Did the Israeli regulator decide to take a risk in the absence of data?
I am also interested in these questions applied to the Oxford/AstraZenica vaccine, Moderna vaccine, and other regulators/vaccine approval processes for coronavirus vaccines.

A:

I don't think there can be data on this, given how short the trials were. On the other hand, I don't think that scientists fear birth defects from COVID-19 vaccines (These vaccines' intended mechanism does not involve modifying your DNA, mind you)
The only known mechanism I could find where a vaccine would cause birth defects was when the virus itself was causing birth defects, and the vaccine, rather than being useful, was enhancing the virus.
(This is called antibody-dependent enhancement, and the virus in question was Zika, studied in mice)
That is not to say that birth defects from COVID-19 vaccination are known to be completely impossible. But one must weigh the rather theoretical (and likely non-existent) risk of COVID-19 vaccines causing birth defects vs the very real risk of dying from COVID-19.

