Q:

Is modern toothpaste acually bad?

All around the www, they say: "modern toothpaste contains toxic/dangerous ingredients." But have manufacturers of modern toothpaste mastered this, and have they formulas in which these dangerous ingredients can't do harm? In other words: are these ingredients in so small amounts in there so that they can't be harmful? 
edit: some of the ingredients contained in modern toothpaste that cause the greatest concern for me are: fluoride, triclosan, SLS, glycerin, artificial color…

A:

No. As asked "modern toothpaste" is very good for you. "Good" defined here as: Modern toothpaste is designed to help you keep a happy smile into old age with your natural teeth. It should help to keep your teeth, and everything in your mouth, really, clean, fresh and healthy.
This is the short answer. And that is a bit too simplistic, alas. The longer answer is slightly more complicated and has the following foreword:
A product that is approved by a nation-wide body of control might indeed be good for most people or at least contain ingredients considered safe or not known to cause general harm. But there are indeed some general bad apples out there on the market. 
This is a statement for the general populace and individual results may differ because of allergies, over-reactions or even counter indications on the medical side, taste and preference on the personal side. The nice thing about that is that you still have a choice between many products on the market. 
Both 'natural' and lets call them 'industrial' toothpastes come in a staggering variety. Both may contain questionable substances and they all vary on effectiveness.  
"All around the WWW": it is usually a bad idea to listen to or read what every quack out there has to say about his or her ideas of toxicity. The author of this answer may be a passionate quack! So think for yourself and educate yourself.
The 'right' amount of fluoride will kill you, the right amount of 'natural' substances will kill you also. The right amount of fluoride (without scare quotes: the optimal amount of fluoride, coincidently most of the time the amount in toothpastes) will strengthen your teeth and lessen the incidence of tooth decay. Avoiding it completely is a personal choice – and may very well be not the best choice.
Your wants: Things likely to look for in a toothpaste:

fluoride (strengthens teeth, comes in different forms with different profiles,  e.g. amin-fluoride, stannous fluoride)

The beneficial effects of fluoride on human oral health are well studied. There are numerous studies demonstrating that a small amount of fluoride delivered to the oral cavity decreases the prevalence of dental decay and results in stronger teeth and bones. However, ingestion of fluoride more than the recommended limit leads to toxicity and adverse effects.
Conclusion:
  The beneficial role of fluoride for the maintenance of good oral health has been known for many decades and strongly evidenced by scientific research. However, it must be emphasized that tooth decay (dental caries) is not caused by fluoride deficiency and fluoride supplementation will never reverse the active or gross carious lesions. Since the level of safety of fluoride is low, products that contain a high level of fluoride should be stored and used according to the recommend-dation and should be monitored by a qualified dental professional especially in children and pregnant women. In children, the swallowing reflex is not very well developed and the fluoride containing dental products are flavored hence increasing the possibility of a child to consume an excessive dose of fluoride. In areas with high fluoride levels in the drinking water, alternative dental products with low fluoride levels should be prescribed and monitored.

zinc chloride (controls bacterial growth, although: not suitable for children)
other minerals (e.g. containing calcium, strontium)
xylitol (controls bacterial growth)
baking soda (helps with lifting plaque)
plant extracts (mainly, but not just, for flavour: mint, myrrh, anise, salvia, fennel, chamomile, eucalyptus; really a long list…)
hydroxyl-apaptite ("artifical enamel")
some enzymes 

Your maybes: Things likely to be included and probably not of concern either way or in a grey zone:

glycerin and alcohol
chlorhexidine (while great against bacteria and preventing plaque: may stain teeth, causes other problems in your mouth, severly alters taste perception)

Your Unwanted: Things very likely to avoid:

sodium lauryl sulfate ("SLS", foaming irritant) (Please excuse the personal advice and anecdotal experience report by the authors of this answer: Does it cause ulcers? – It does for sure!) 
abrasive materials (use the RDA value of a product as guideline: >100 is too much, aim for <60)
acids and other sugars or sweeteners than xylitol or stevia (sorbitol, aspartame etc.) Note that this doesn't say aspartame e.g. is dangerous, just that there are better options.
triclosan (very questionable ingredient all around if not strictly prescribed, does help against plaque and gingivitis, but causes a whole lot of problems)
plastic micro beads (mostly because of the environment, less harmful immediately to the consumer)
parabenes: steeply raising concerns over their effect as xeno-estrogens, although in toothpaste their contribution to unwanted effects seems minimal. 
strange artificial colours (first: because they are completely unnecessary except to make you buy the stuff, second: most beneficial ingredients have their own colour – and if not, what's wrong with white?)

That list is not exhaustive. Questinable materials often found in so-called 'natural toothpaste' is not covered. (and there are lots!) The list above plant extracts above shows: even industrial toothpastes make use of natural components. But those ingredients may include things like green tea extract (generally well tolerated) or tea-tree oil (often not well tolerated and possible allergen). These  should be checked especially thoroughly, for allergies, side effects etc. Potential hazards for any ingredient have to be weighed for their beneficial effects and especially the intended use and application considered: do not swallow the pastes! Even the xylitol listed as very beneficial and of very low concern will cause upset stomach and diarrhea when ingested in sufficient quantity.
In general: Look for a toothpaste that meets these criteria, and your tastes and preferences. Try them out. If you tolerate the ingredients: Then go to your dentist and ask him about his opinion about your preferred choice(s).

Things listed here and things not listed here but contained in a toothpaste may require you to check yourself:

but don't just google it, and stop there on the first hit, go for quality references
check it on wikipedia 
check it on a consumer rights webpage (example HealthEU)
check it on drugs.com
check it on pubchem
check it on the skindeep database

