Q:

How does poor sleep cause circles under one's eyes?

I've read that poor sleep causes circles under one's eyes.
Also, I've read that they are caused by dehydration.
Is it safe to assume that the way poor sleep causes the circles is by causing dehydration?
If so, how does it happen: why does poor sleep cause dehydration, and why does dehydration cause circles under one's eyes?
If not, then how does poor sleep cause circles under one's eyes?

A:

These dark circles can likely be attributed to vascular network prominence caused by hollowing of the contents of the orbital rim, pigmentary changes in the periorbital area caused by extravasated hemoglobin and its breakdown products (bilirubin and biliverdin), or to visibly accumulating fluid in the lower eyelid due to local processes such as atopy or systemic fluid retention.
Dark circles under the eyes are very literally representative of infraorbital (or periorbital/periocular) hyperpigmentation. I was able to find literature pretty quickly on this subject dating all the way back to the '60s:

"Dark Circles Under the Eyes in Children." Meyer B. Marks. Clinical Pediatrics. 1966.
Dark
  discolorations 
  or 
  shadows 
  under
  the 
  eyes 
  as 
  seen 
  in 
  some 
  children 
  are 
  often
  ascribed 
  to 
  fatigue 
  or 
  sleeplessness. 
  With 
  older
  children 
  and 
  even 
  in 
  adults 
  a 
  popular 
  notion
  is 
  to 
  attribute 
  these 
  to 
  chronic 
  eyestrain. 
  With
  an 
  adolescent 
  girl 
  at 
  menarche 
  the 
  mother
  may 
  associate 
  them 
  with 
  menstruation.
  Many 
  of 
  the 
  bluish-black 
  discolorations 
  in
  the 
  lower 
  orbitopalpebral 
  grooves 
  of 
  children
  – termed "allergic 
  shiners" – result 
  from 
  long-
  standing 
  perennial 
  nasal 
  allergy.
  They 
  are 
  rarely 
  seen 
  in 
  the 
  first 
  year 
  of 
  life
  unless 
  the 
  infant 
  had 
  nasal 
  obstruction 
  with
  accompanying 
  mouth-breathing 
  from 
  birth.
  Children 
  with 
  uncomplicated 
  seasonal 
  allergic
  rhinitis 
  do 
  not 
  have 
  allergic 
  shiners.

This early paper (which mentions allergies as the cause of these dark circles) alludes to sleeplessness or fatigue as being another cause of infraorbital hyperpigmentation. Skipping several decades of research and progress, there are a number of useful, modern review papers on this subject (emphasis mine):

"What causes dark circles under the eyes?" Fernanda Magagnin Freitag,
  Tania Ferreira Cestari. Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology. 2007.
Dark rings under the eyes are defined as bilateral, round,
  homogeneous pigment macules on the infraorbital regions.
  There  is  no  doubt  that  they  are  worsened  by  general
  fatigue, especially lack of  sleep. This idea is corroborated
  by the daily fluctuation of  the lesions intensity, according
  to the patient status. For this reason, they have been
  regarded  as  a  mere  physiologic  phenomenon.
    Dark circles are more pronounced in certain ethnic groups and
  are also frequently seen in multiple members of  the same
  family.  These  hereditary  observations  raise  a  question:
  are  there  any  anatomic  or  histological  characteristics
  in  these  populations  that  could  give  us  a  reasonable
  etiologic explanation?
  Histological characteristics of  infraorbital darkening
  suggest that they are caused by multiple etiologic factors
  that include dermal melanin deposition, postinflammatory
  hyperpigmentation secondary to atopic or allergic contact
  dermatitis,  periorbital  edema,  superficial  location  of
  vasculature, and shadowing due to skin laxity. 
Despite its prevalence and cosmetic importance, there are
  few  published  studies  in  the  scientific  literature  about
  dark  circles.  Even  a  good  definition  of   this  condition  is
  lacking. We think the term 
  infraorbital ring-shaped melanosis
  proposed  by  Watanabe  et  al.  does  not  encompass  its
  etiology in a global manner.
  As  there  is  neither  a  general  understanding  about
  dark  circles  pathogenesis  nor  a  consensus  about  the
  major  responsible  features,  treatments  are  chosen  in  a
  simplified  way,  rendering  suboptimal  results  most  of
  the time. It is important to identify the specific anatomic
  problem  of   each  patient  in  order  to  individualize  treatment.

This gets closer to a direct answer and offers several possible etiologies (bolded) for infraorbital hyperpigmentation. These are further clarified in the context of sleep by publications from this year:

"A study of epidemiological, etiological, and clinicopathological factors in periocular hyperpigmentation."  M Chatterjee, B Suwal, A Malik, B V. Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology. 2018.
Conclusion:
  Periocular darkening was predominantly not due to pigment, but rather due to cutaneous laxity and vascular visibility through
  thin skin. Most of them with pigment had it in the dermis. Clinical dermal pigmentation correlated well with histology, unlike epidermal
  pigmentation. Iron and amyloid were not significant as etiological factors in our patients.
"Periorbital hyperpigmentation − An overview of the enigmatous condition."
  Manju Daroach, Muthu S Kumaran. Pigment International. 2018.
Periocular dark circles may appear because of various
  anatomic factors such as architecture of facial ligaments,
  the bony facial structure, midface soft tissue including the 
  prominence of the orbicularis oculi muscle. Because of ageing,
  there is a loss of facial fat leading to inflexible ligaments
  causing hollowing effect on orbital rim. There is worsening of
  shadowing duetohollowness,which is mainly seen in the tear
  trough area in inferomedial orbit. The thin eyelid skin
  contributes to the prominence of the underlying soft tissue
  and subcutaneous vascular network and the orbicularis oculi
  muscle, due to which the overlying skin appears dark. 
Visible pigmentary changes in periorbital area may be due to
  extravasated hemoglobin and its breakdown products
  bilirubin and biliverdin. A variety of pathologic and
  age-related processes result in the increased permeability
  of the local vasculature resulting in these pigmentary
  changes. The lower eyelid tissues may have an increased
  tendency to accumulate fluid due to local processes such as
  atopy as well as systemic fluid retention and can be limited
  inferiorly by the orbital rim because of the cutaneous
  ligaments. This fluid often takes on a purplish color due
  to the prominent role of the orbicularis muscle in the lower
  eyelid. Medical disorders including disorders of liver,
  heart, thyroid or kidney, hereditary blood disorders,
  vitamin  K  deficiency.

For a more complete analysis of the different contributing factors to infraorbital dark circles, check out this review from 2016:

"Infraorbital Dark Circles: A Review of the Pathogenesis, Evaluation and Treatment." Ivan Vrcek, Omar Ozgur, and Tanuj Nakra. Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery. 2016.
Infraorbital dark circles are caused by a variety of anatomic features, with contributions from the skin, subcutaneous tissues, orbicularis muscle, vasculature and ligamentous architecture of the lower eyelid and cheek. A detailed understanding of the regional anatomy is crucial to the management of dark circles, which encompasses a wide variety of modalities.

This might not be a totally satisfying answer, but it's not as simple as a single source of pigmentation resulting in dark circles under the eyes. Even though there are many contributing factors, we still use general periorbital hyperpigmentation as an identifier of fatigue, since the various factors (usually) cumulatively represent sleeplessness.

