Q:

Is drinking alcohol a form of energy intake?

Of course, alcohol has calories, 7 per gram. But there are many substances which have internal energy but are not digestible by humans. For example, if I burn beeswax, I'll release lots of energy, but if I eat it, I think it won't count towards my caloric intake. 
I've seen diet information sources which warn about the calories present in alcohol, but I have never seen a nutrition label which lists the calories from alcohol. It is also not considered a macronutrient in the classic "proteins, fats, carbohydrates" list. While I get it why nobody would suggest that alcohol becomes a regular energy source in the diet, I had the impression that those three are an exclusive list of compounds the body can use to gain energy. I find these contradictions confusing. 
So in the end, are the calories from alcohol utilized by the body, or not?

A:

There is some agreement that the calories and other nutrition data, except the percent of alcohol, do not need to be shown on the labels of alcoholic beverages.
But these nutrition facts are listed in the USDA.gov nutrients database (search for beer, wine, vodka, gin...)
For example, 1 jigger or 1.5 oz of 80 proof vodka has 97 Calories. These calories represent "metabolic energy," which is energy that can be actually used by your body.
A source that claims that alcohol provides metabolic energy:

European Journal of Clinical Nutrition: Alcohol has 29.6 kJ (7 Cal) of combustible energy and 29 kJ (6.9 Cal) of metabolic energy per gram.

A:

I have seen many lists of macro-nutrients that exclude alcohol but this is often due to the fact that alcohol is not essential to our survival.  Alcohol is the only other substance that provides the body energy in addition to the three main macro-nutrients.
In short, alcohol definitely can be absorbed by the body (as evidenced by the behaviors exhibited by many after consuming large quantities of it) and the body is able to utilize the energy from alcohol. Therefore you should definitely include it in your Calorie counting.
This site has a list of various alcoholic beverages and their energy contents for you to peruse at your leisure:
http://www.weightlossresources.co.uk/calories-in-food/alcoholic-drinks.htm 

