Q:

Natural ways to stop/delay hairloss?

I'm 28, male, and the hair above my forehead started to fall about 2 years ago and my scalp is finally starting to shine out.
I believe this has to do with genetics etc. but still, are there any natural ways to prevent or delay this?

A:

How to stop or delay hair loss, it mainly depends on your cause and there many reasons of hair loss (alopecia) as this can be caused by oxidative stress, alopecia areata, an autoimmune disorder, fungal infection, traumatic damage, iron deficiency and many more and it can occur anywhere and at any age.
In general nutrients and antioxidants in food play an key role in body defence mechanism including hair growth. Antioxidants help to neutralize certain free radicals which have the potential to damage human cells and genetic material. They basically halting the oxidation reaction.
Antioxidants

Vitamin C & E
Is a potent antioxidant that help in maintaining healthy hair. It help to increase scalp circulation and oxygenation.

Polyphenol antioxidants2005
Polyphenols have many health benefits and their antioxidant properties promote hair growth. They're also photoprotective, radioprotective, anti-inflammatory and highly antioxidant.
See also: Antioxidant effect of polyphenols and natural phenols

C60/EVOO (C60 dissolved in Extra Virgin Olive Oil)
C60/EVOO is an strong anti-oxidant at intracellular level which results in better functioning mitochondria.
Studies in 2009 showed that fullerene nanomaterials potentiate hair growth:

In SKH-1hairless mice fullerene derivatives given topically or subdermally markedly increased hair growth.
The fullerenes also increased hair growth in human skin sections maintained in culture. These studies have wide-ranging implications for those conditions leading to hair loss, including alopecia, chemotherapy, and reactions to various chemicals.
[...] We report that fullerene derivatives accelerate the growth of hair in mice and human skin. [...]

Quote from Luna US20110003773 patent:

Using fullerenes to enhance and stimulate hair growth
It has been discovered that fullerenes can stimulate hair growth, restore hair growth in areas of hair loss, and induce the formation of new hair follicles.

Dr. Moussa has studied the effects of C60 on animals for 18 years and claim C60 in olive oil is safe and anti-toxic (has no toxicity effects).
Quote from one researcher who was/is taking C60-EVOO orally/topically for over 3 years:

Hair regrowth that filled in a patch in the back that had been thinning for thirty years and was bare in a spot about as big as my palm. (A Norwood 4 in the back and a 1.5 in the front).
I have now seen further improvement by applying a small amount dissolved in 91% rubbing alcohol, applying it with a dropper to the scalp for a few days. So topical treatment may be better than oral for hair regrowth.

