Q:

Why I am lossing memory if I work hard?

I am a software engineer and you know that it requires to think in logical way to develop code. I am also hard working to reach the dead lines just to do not loss job. But from last 6 months forgetting lot of things in my daily life, I am not able to remember atleast what I did in the morning. Will it be common to have such memory loss or else will it cause permanent loss? I am not able to avoid my thoughts about work as I need to finish work by deadlines. Is there a way to avoid such memory loss?

A:

Sleep deprivation and stress alone can cause this, but it's not the only possible cause... depression and/or anxiety also are correlated (and not unlikely given the length of exposure to chronic stress you mention)... so do see a doctor.
On the effects of sleep deprivation:

First and foremost, total SD impairs attention and working memory, but it also affects other functions, such as long-term memory and decision-making

"Burnout" while not accepted in the psychiatric bible (DSM) is also a resonable explanation, and can have the same effect(s):

A systematic review provided by Deligkaris et al. (2014) distinctly showed that burnout is associated with a decline in three main cognitive functions: executive functions, attention and memory (assessed objectively using psychometric tests instead of self-reports).

Also

While burnout does not appear in the 5th edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders [(DSM-5)], it has been established as a legitimate justification for sick leave in several countries, for instance Sweden.

I hope you live there.
Also, I suggest you read Mayo clinic's advice for possible other causes and on dealing with memory loss. The causes I mentioned above are reversible, the neurological ones are less so.

And if you think I'm prioritizing the above wrong, NHS has this

Common causes of memory loss
GPs often find that people who see them about memory loss are most likely to have:

anxiety
stress
depression

Their memory loss is a result of poor concentration and not noticing things in the first place because of a lack of interest. Sleeping problems often make the memory loss worse.
[...]
Other common causes of memory loss are:

a head injury – for example, after a car accident
a stroke – this cuts off some of the blood supply to the brain and causes brain tissue to die

followed by a longer/separate list of less common causes.

