Q:

Why does the healthcare sector need its own DICOM standard instead of using XML or JSON?

I wonder why the healthcare sector needs its own DICOM standard instead of using XML or JSON.
I mean, they could simply use well-established formats and just define their own field-value pairs instead, which would significantly decrease the amount of work needed.
What are the main reasons for this? Is this a historical leftover that never got ported to modern formats, or are there practical reasons, e.g. performance and file sizes?
Or is this because for medical devices, they are responsible for any libraries that are included, anyway, and thus it does not really make a difference anymore whether you build it from scratch or reuse code that already exists?
(Tag used because non of the existing tags seems to fit)
DICOM in the XML Schema Design Language (XSDL)
XML-Based DICOM Data Format
Edit: I just realized that HL7 v3 already uses XML, thus I changed the question's title.

A:

I would flip this question on its head and ask what you think the benefit would be to changing the underlying file format?  There are a few points that I can think of that might help frame the context for you, but there is probably no "correct answer" in the SE-sense.
Imagine if a new file format were to be developed in medical imaging which stored its data in JSON.  There would still need to be a separate documented standard that exhaustively details how imaging data is coded in this new format.  That already exists in the form of the DICOM standard, so why rewrite it when it will still need to be interpreted by any library using this new format?
Secondly, remember that in clincial practice medical software is a diverse mix of vendors from all over the world, some large, some small.  There is no unifying body that mandates how software companies design their products, and interoperability is already extremely challenging.  Given the established nature of DICOM, there is little incentive for these vendors to invest money in creating / utilising a different standard.  Even if they were to do so, hospitals are notorious for being stuck on legacy software.  This article from 2010 gives you an idea of the state of play.  Even today, one of the pieces of software I use on a daily basis only works in Internet Explorer, not in Edge/Chrome.
It is probably worth noting that DICOM is not the only medical imaging file format in use, although it is probably the most prevalent in the clincial setting.  For example, the NifTI format is widely used in the neuroimaging research space.
Bear in mind, as well, that medical imaging data is very heterogeneous and so writing a new standard is not a small task.  For example:

A chest X-ray is a 2D grayscale image
A CT scan is multiple stacked 2D images, sometimes with several series (i.e. several associated stacks) in a single scan
A PETCT scan would include a co-registered map onto a CT displaying tracer avidity detected by the gamma camera
A 4DCT would also incorporate a time element into this
DICOM-RT objects could include information such as radiotherapy dose planned to a particular voxel, or the physical position of a radiotherapy field

This is before you get into the metadata associated with it, which ranges from patient demographics, the field strength of the MRI scanner, the frame of reference of the scan and beyond.
Finally, what do you mean when you say

it would significantly decrease the amount of work needed"?

There exist already many libraries (e.g. pydicom) to work with DICOM, if there were a JSON-based format they would then need to be developed for that.

