Q:

What textbooks do medical students read to learn how to diagnose illnesses?

Your family doctor obviously learned how to diagnose various illnesses, such as the flu, skin conditions (rashes, burns, etc.), etc. 
I was wondering what textbooks they studied in medical school to learn this? In other words, is there specific textbook(s) that teach you how to diagnose illnesses? 
It looks like the textbook Current Medical Diagnosis and Treatment, 2018 is the type of thing I'm looking for. It lists various illnesses and has brief descriptions. Is there something more suited for my interests, or is this as good as it gets? I would like something with more detail (detailed symptoms, etc.), including images, if possible.
Thank you.

A:

There is no specific book that will teach you how to diagnose illnesses. First of all, medicine is an extremely large and complex science, consisting of different specialties, and every one of them has its own large spectrum of knowledge to study (eg. your question - skin conditions are subject of dermatology, flu - infectious diseases etc.). Doctors go through the basics in all fields during their ~6 years studies, and later become specialists only in a particular branch.
Secondly, just knowing the symptoms of a disease won't qualify you for diagnosing. It's a complex process, that involves a set of special skills, such as knowing how to examine a patient, understanding imaging/lab, and so on. 
And here comes an important note: most of what I described is not only taught on a basis of medical literature, but also by a mentor who not only is a good specialist themselves, but also knows how to make other people capable of using all this knowledge.
Last but not least, the comment regarding background knowledge is also completely true and is to be taken into account.  
Having said all that, I assume that your goal is to get a peek inside how diagnosis works, in this case i'd recommend some "Introduction to..." textbooks for different medical specialties, they might be a bit challenging to understand without required theoretical background (eg. histology, physiology etc.) but will give a nice overview of what do those specialties work with.

A:

I had to study pathophysiology.  My textbook was called something like advanced pathophysiology. However,  I learned a lot about neuropsychiatric conditions by studying a book titled something like pharmacological approaches for the treatment of neuropsychological diseases.  I think! Very close if not right on. 
What it is in layman's terms and probably in medical school texts,  is psych pharm. Or psychiatric pharmacology.  
Pathophysiology of disease is great for all types of knowledge and psych pharm is very in depth.  
Many physicians,  ARNPs, and PAs, learn by internship or clinical practice while in school.  This cemented book knowledge together with real life presentations with expert guidance. 
Hope that helped. 
Let me add the site that provided my online text for my psych pharm class.  This text has pathopsysiological texts,  pharmacology texts as well as prescribing information. It had some interactive case studies.  It is wonderful.  https://stahlonline.cambridge.org/
Perhaps Cambridge University has similar texts that are strictly medical. 

