Q:

What is the goal of current US lockdown measures?

In March 2020 in the US, in my opinion, lockdown measures were clearly motivated and explained: the goal is to avoid overwhelming the health care system, and the method was to use lockdowns and other similar measures to stall for time while new health care facilities were built (e.g. hospitals and ventilators).
In May 2020, it seems we've achieved the goal of expanding the availability of health care well beyond what we expected to need to deal with COVID-19 infections.
Thus, the motivation for continued lockdowns seems less clear1. So my question is:

What is the goal that politicians are currently aiming for, and how does continued lockdowns support it?

1: Note I'm deliberately assuming noble intent and informed decision making, and I'm seeking information that would support this assumption.

A:

The purpose of lock downs is to enforce social distancing and other measures to break the chain of disease transmission.  There is no data to suggest that has occurred yet in the USA.  
Many countries that have employed mandatory lockdown have successfully contained the virus and stopped community transmission.  China was the first successful example of this though there has now been a small outbreak of 6 cases in a residential compound in Wuhan, and the city of Shulan is in lockdown with 3 new cases reported.  China has also just ordered the testing of the 11 million residents of Wuhan.
Taiwan managed to contain the pandemic without lockdown but used early border controls, aggressive quarantine, and contact tracing as well as other social policies.  They had 7 deaths in a population just larger than Sweden.
New Zealand is emerging out of lockdown with people being allowed to return to work from tomorrow.  0 - 3 cases daily have been reported in the last week. NZ has had 20 deaths in a population of 5M.  Sweden, which did not enforce lockdown, but relied on the public to adopt voluntary social distancing, has had 3,300 deaths with twice the population size.  If you calculate the rate for the USA using Sweden as the basis, you would expect to see 33 * 3,300 = 108,900 deaths but so far the number of deaths has been 83,000 approx.  So, as the USA eases its lockdown policies without evidence of controlling the chain of transmission, expect to see many more deaths.
https://www.dw.com/en/taiwan-coronavirus/a-52724523
https://medicalxpress.com/news/2020-05-china-wuhan-virus-infection-month.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic_in_Sweden

