Q:

Negative COVID test day of event, positive next morning. What is the risk of transmission?

Imagine someone attends a relatively large social gathering during the day and evening. That morning they had a negative COVID test. There was substantial close contact, such as hugging.
The next day, that individual tests themselves and finds that they are positive for COVID.
I am not asking for medical advice, but what is the current medical information available with regards to risk of transmission to other partygoers?
Online sites and UK NHS info tend to focus on testing and test results, rather than how false negative and later positive results influence risks and incubation times.
What do we know about the risk of infection for other partygoers? What are the infection/incubation windows? What actions should they take?
I understand that partygoers probably wouldn't be contagious for a day (maybe 2 or 3), if they had caught it.

A:

On this site we can not provide medical advice to anyone. However, as with any disease, you should monitor for symptoms and if concerned visit a health professional for diagnosis and treatment.
However, I don't think your core question is personal medical advice - you are asking about the sensitivity of the tests and whether someone could test negative on a test but still be infectious.
I'm assuming that you and the others in your group were using Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs, AKA Lateral Flow Assays [LFA]).
If so, this infographic from Dankova et al. might be of some use to you:

In this picture, you can see the dotted line for the viral infection going though 3 main phases of infection, incubation (grey), infectious (pink/peach) and post-infectious (green). Note that the timing of the infection is an idealized model, and not necessarily what is experienced in real-life. Most people will have an infectious process with roughly the same timing, but for some the phases may be longer or shorter. It is entirely possible to have a very short incubation, long infectious and long post-infectious phases.
On the X-axis there is a box showing the relative sensitivities for the RAT/LFA (red) and PCR tests (cyan). As you can see the RAT/LFA have a fairly short window in which they will detect the virus, and that this window does not completely overlap the infectious phase, missing the early part of this phase.
So, it is possible that transmission can occur from a person who has tested negative by a RAT/LFA, but this is less likely from a qPCR test.
References:

Dankova, Z.; Novakova, E.; Skerenova, M.; Holubekova, V.; Lucansky,
V.; Dvorska, D.; Brany, D.; Kolkova, Z.; Strnadel, J.; Mersakova, S.;
Janikova, K.; Samec, M.; Pokusa, M.; Petras, M.; Sarlinova, M.;
Kasubova, I.; Loderer, D.; Sadlonova, V.; Kompanikova, J.; Kotlebova,
N.; Kompanikova, A.; Hrnciarova, M.; Stanclova, A.; Antosova, M.;
Dzian, A.; Nosal, V.; Kocan, I.; Murgas, D.; Krkoska, D.; Calkovska,
A.; Halasova, E. Comparison of SARS-CoV-2 Detection by Rapid Antigen
and by Three Commercial RT-qPCR Tests: A Study from Martin University
Hospital in Slovakia. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2021, 18,
7037. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph18137037

Other articles you might be interested in:

Johansson MA, Quandelacy TM, Kada S, et al. SARS-CoV-2 Transmission From People Without COVID-19 Symptoms. JAMA Netw Open. 2021;4(1):e2035057. doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.35057
Krumkamp R, Kreuels B, Jaeger VK, May J, Mikolajczyk R, Karch A. Negative SARS-CoV-2 PCR or rapid antigen test result and the subsequent risk of being infectious: a mathematical simulation study. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2021 Aug 10;21(1):165. doi: 10.1186/s12874-021-01361-3. PMID: 34376152; PMCID: PMC8353420.

