Q:

Do painkillers cure headaches or just stop us from feeling it?

I frequently have migraine attacks, and have to take some pills to stop the pain. My question is, does a pill stop the source of an attack, or does it just stop my brain from feeling it?
Let's take a clear example:
You have a broken bone, you take a very powerful painkiller (or maybe even an injection), so you can't feel the pain in your broken arm anymore. But still, if you apply pressure on the bone, it will still damage the body, regardless of feeling it or not. So it's not curing the bone, it's just preventing you from feeling it.
Now when I have these attacks, I need to stay in the dark and rest (as you already know what a migraine attack is), and if I still continue to (for example) use my computer, it will hurt more and more with each second passing. This is an alert from my brain:

Stop doing what you are doing and rest!!

I know a simple pill won't cure a major wound or a broken arm, but still, do these medicines cure a headache, or will I still damage my body by continuing doing these things when I have an attack and take a pill which stops the pain almost instantly?

A:

Are painkillers curative for migraine headaches?
No, they are not, but they are therapeutic.
Similarly to user @De Novo's comment, the main problem in migraine headaches is the pain. Although the source of the pain doesn't go away and you may still feel pain some time afterwards, symptomatic treatment of migraines with painkillers is still an effective form of management.
You will not "damage" your body further by continuing whatever activity triggers the headache, you will only feel more pain. There is also the issue of adverse effects following long term use of pain medications, but that is beyond the scope of this answer.
However, relying purely on pain management in all headaches is not a good idea. Some headaches have different underlying causes, brain bleeds, lesions, hypertension, infectious and febrile illnesses, etc.
Of course preventive medicine is always the best, so if you get headaches from doing X activity, please avoid X activity.
I hope this answers your question :)
Sources:
Management of migraines
Efficacy of some painkillers
Effectiveness of some current headache therapies

