Q:

Which conditions are associated with (multiple) food allergies?

Most people with food allergies are allergic to one or few foods, but allergies to more than three foods are relatively rare (PubMed, 2010). In some people who are allergic to several foods, an underlying condition is discovered, for example:

Atopy
Eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders (EGID)

Question: Are there other known conditions that are associated with food allergies and are there any known triggers that trigger their onset?
To put the questions in the context: Does it make sense for someone with (multiple) food allergies to undergo investigations to find an eventual underlying disorder or trigger? Because, sometimes, treatment with desensitization  may be possible.
The focus of the question is not on "multiple," but I was thinking it is more likely that multiple allergies have known underlying causes. So, I'm looking for a list of "underlying conditions," "related conditions," "risk factors" and "triggers" of food allergies. 

A:

1. Some individuals with pollen allergy experience mouth itching and swelling after eating certain raw fruits, vegetables and tree nuts. The condition is called oral allergy syndrome or pollen-food syndrome.
2. A certain food allergy as such may increase intestinal permeability (leaky gut syndrome) and allow additional allergens to enter the blood, which can result in multiple food allergies (PubMed, 2006 ; PubMed, 2016).
3. The use of antibiotics in infancy can increase the risk of food allergies later in life.
4. Orofacial granulomatosis (which may or may not be associated with Crohn's disease) increases the risk for food allergies. A cinnamon- and benzoate-free diet can help (PubMed, 2006).
5. Children with inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis) are at increased risk for food allergies. Another study has found an association between inflammatory bowel disease and food allergies.
6. Infections or stress may increase intestinal permeability and thus induce food allergies in susceptible individuals.
7. Due to cross-reactivity, certain non-food allergens can trigger food allergies: Alternaria (a common mold)-spinach syndrome, dust mite-shrimp syndrome, cat-pork syndrome and bird-egg syndrome.

As a side note, food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) can develop in infants after introducing solid foods and can present with multiple food allergies, which, unlike traditional IgE-mediated allergies, do not cause itching, hives, swelling, coughing or wheezing, but "only" gastrointestinal symptoms, such as diarrhea.

