Q:

Are dairy products effective sources of calcium?

Tradition says that dairy products are good sources of calcium just because they have it; while some modern studies (see below) show that protein digestion produces acidic environment, and body uses calcium from the bones to re-establish the correct pH. These opinions say that dairy products could even be detrimental to bone density and osteoporosis.
So in the end calcium balance is positive or negative from the consumption of dairy products?
References
Protein metabolism and calcium loss
It was asked in the comments to provide some reference about the "modern studies" relating calcium loss to protein intake.

The specific amino acid profile—especially of amino acids containing sulfur—determines the calciuretic effect of protein. Sulfate generated from the metabolism of these amino
  acids increases the acidity of the urine, causing greater amounts of calcium to be excreted in the urine. The proteins of many
  plants, especially legumes, have lower amounts of methionine and cysteine than do animal proteins.

Weaver, C. M., Proulx, W. R., & Heaney, R. (1999). Choices for achieving adequate dietary calcium with a vegetarian diet. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 70(3 Suppl), 543S–548S

To date, the accumulated data indicate that the adverse effect of protein, in particular animal (but not vegetable) protein, might outweigh the positive effect of calcium intake on calcium balance.

Amine et al. (2002). Diet, nutrition and the prevention of chronic diseases: report of a Joint WHO/FAO Expert Consultation.

A:

Dairy products are not the best source of calcium for many reasons.

Lactose Intolerance

Lactose intolerant people can't have dairy products as they will usually cause various symptoms like diarrhea or cramping

High Saturated Fat Content

Most dairy products are high in saturated fat, which can be a risk factor for heart disease
Milk has been able to cut down on this with reduced fat and fat-free options, but other dairy products, like cheese and ice cream are still very high in fat

Cancer Risk

Ovarian Cancer - Studies have shown that high intakes of lactose (equal to 2-3 servings of milk) can increase the risk of ovarian cancer1
Prostate Cancer - Studies showed inconclusive evidence that some men with a higher calcium intake might have a higher risk of prostate cancer; Evidence was not conclusive; Could also be linked to just calcium rather than dairy products2

Though dairy products are a convenient source, and they are high in protein and vitamins A and D, they are not the best source for calcium. In small amounts, dairy is fine, but there are good alternative sources.
Other sources

Leafy green vegetables - kale, spinach, lettuce
Beans, legumes, and almonds
Calcium supplements

[1] Dairy products and ovarian cancer
[2] Dairy products, calcium and prostate cancer risk

Should You Get Calcium from Milk?

A:

The issue whether “excess” dietary protein intake adversely affects bone in humans is a subject of current controversy in nutrition(1),(2),(3) with one group concluding that “excess protein will not harm the skeleton if the calcium intake is adequate”(3) and group that “excessive dietary protein from foods with high potential renal acid load (e.g., animal foods) adversely affects bone, unless buffered by the consumption of alkali-rich foods (e.g. vegetable foods)”(1) (quoted by Frassetto 2000).
Other studies reporting better bone health in women with greater protein intakes(4),(5) (high protein intake prevents BMD decrease). Further, the Munger study reported that higher intakes of animal sources of dietary protein were associated with a 70% reduction in hip fracture, even after controlling for major confounding variables (Hannan 2000).
Read more: Calcium, BMD and Osteoporosis
In overall it's difficult to say whether calcium intake has positive or negative effect from the consumption of dairy products on our bones, based on the sample size and subject characteristics of the studies, so more studies needs to be conducted.

References:

Barzel US, Massey LK. Excess dietary protein can adversely affect bone. J Nutr. 1998;128:1051–1053.
Massey LK. Does excess dietary protein adversely affect bone? Symposium overview. J Nutr. 1998;128:1048–1050.
Heaney RP. Excess dietary protein may not adversely affect bone. J Nutr. 1998;128:1054–1057.
Freudenheim et al.(46, Freudenheim JL, Johnson NE, Smith EL 1986
47, Munger Cerhan JR, Chiu BC 1999 Prospective study of dietary protein intake and risk of hip fracture in postmenopausal women.

