Q:

Having sex with someone who's had many sexual partners,

There's someone who I've been getting to know and she's particularly free-spirited and very smart and mature for her age (in college).
As our discussions have started to lean more towards us potentially having sex, we started to share more personal information with each other, and something she revealed is a bit shocking to me: she's had 25 sexual partners in the past.  I've only had a few - and can remember every girl that I've ever slept with.
How can I protect myself in this situation?  I'm not seeking medical advice, but more like, is it dangerous for me to have sex with someone who has had that many sexual partners in her past?
I've thought about asking her to let's go and get an STDs test together at some clinic, but I am afraid that would insult her and ruin any chances of us getting intimate.  Now I sort of wish that I hadn't known so much about her, to be honest.
Any advice is appreciated.
Thanks,

A:

This is a very good and important question, not only for you but for other people as well.
As people have said in the comments, YES it can be potentially dangerous to have unprotected sexual encounters with her without having tested for STDs first. Even if she's had unprotected sex with only ONE person, she would've been at risk for an STD.
As long as she hasn't been tested, please have protected sex only. This study talks about (among other things) the effectiveness of condoms in reduving the risk for STDs.
You should be honest with her and say "I'm not comfortable having unprotected sex if you do not test for STDs first." STDs can be asymptomatic, so she might have one and not know about it. So it's not a question of trust. If it makes it easier for you, you might even say "It's not that I do not trust you, but I do not know the people you've had sex with before and it's them I don't trust." 
Generally, I tell people: If a person refuses to check for STDs/does not want to have protected sex, they do not truly care about you. If that's the case, walk away.

