Q:

Is there any benefit in seeking autism/Aspergers diagnosis as an adult?

With reference to someone who has a reasonably good job and who copes easily with day-to-day tasks of living (cooking, cleaning, travelling etc) but who has no friends (or very few), very little social life, and is very reticent about engaging in conversation beyond basic pleasantries and technical work conversations with colleagues - is there any benefit in seeking an autism/Aspergers diagnosis as an adult?

A:

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) manifests in early childhood and is characterised by qualitative abnormalities in social interactions, markedly aberrant communication skills, and restricted repetitive behaviours, interests, and activities (RRBs). It is primarily considered a childhood disorder; however, it is not necessarily a childhood disorder. Autistic spectrum disorders can be and should be diagnosed even in adults, and there are always benefits of diagnosing them rather than not doing so. The National Autistic Society of the United Kingdom declare, in their official website, the following information regarding the benefits of a formal diagnosis for adults:

Benefits of a diagnosis
Some people see a formal diagnosis as an unhelpful label, but for
  many, getting a timely and thorough assessment and diagnosis may be
  helpful because:

it may help you (and your family, partner, employer, colleagues and friends) to understand why you may experience certain difficulties and
  what you can do about them.
it may correct a previous misdiagnosis (such as schizophrenia), and mean that any mental health problems can be better addressed (however,
  it can be difficult to make a diagnosis of autism where there are
  severe mental health issues, or where someone is receiving treatment).
it may help you to get access to appropriate services and benefits your employer will be required to make any necessary reasonable
  adjustments.
it may help women, and those with a demand avoidant profile, who may not before have been recognised as autistic by others you can join
  the autism community – you don't need to be diagnosed to join our
  online community or subscribe to our Asperger United magazine, but you
  might need a diagnosis to join some social groups.

Your question provides some important information as you describe your case with the following words:

… someone who has a reasonably good job and who copes easily with
  day-to-day tasks of living (cooking, cleaning, travelling etc) but who
  has no friends (or very few), very little social life, and is very
  reticent about engaging in conversation beyond basic pleasantries and
  technical work conversations with colleagues …

The person described above has reasonably good job and copes easily with day-to-day tasks of living (cooking, cleaning, travelling etc) despite having features that may lead to a diagnosis of autistic spectrum disorder. Should such a person in his adult life look for a formal diagnosis? The National Autistic Society has already answered the question: 

It’s quite common for people to have gone through life without an autism diagnosis, feeling that somehow they don't quite fit in. Many people learn to cope with life in their own ways, although this can be hard work. They might be married or living with a partner, have families or successful careers. Others may be more isolated and find things much more of a struggle. 
It is up to you whether you decide to seek a diagnosis and some people are happy to remain self-diagnosed. The only way to know for sure whether you are autistic is to get a formal diagnosis.

On the information we have discussed above, I shall suggest that the person concerned seek a formal diagnosis, if he has not already been diagnosed, and receive the help that would surely improve the quality of his life with regard to social and interpersonal interactions. 
Autism in adults shall be an important health related issue; accordingly, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has published its guideline on autism in adults: Autism spectrum disorder in adults: diagnosis and management in June 2012, and it was last updated in August 2016. The National Health Service of the United Kingdom (NHS) follows the NICE guideline to ensure that the diagnosis and management of Autism Spectrum Disorder in adults is carried out in a regular and consistent manner across the country. Moreover, the Department of Health also issued its statutory guideline: Statutory guidance for Local Authorities and NHS organisations to support implementation of the Adult Autism Strategy in March 2015 in that mission.There is always help for people in need. 

