Q:

What is the field of medicine divided into? E.g. Anatomy and physiology

What are all of the 'sub-categories' what make up the field of medicine? E.g. physiology and anatomy.
I'm looking into lectures to learn so please list the fields, places for potential resources and a brief explanation of the field if you can.
Not looking to become a Doctor nor give advise/treatment, just out of curiosity so university is not necessary.

A:

From my current personal experience at medical school, I would like to add following precisions to Carey Gregory's answer:
Before going into clinical practice and rotating in the different subspecialties listed by Carey Gregory in his answer, in general, medical students learn the “fundamentals” of medicine during the first years of medical school. 
This contains:

Human physiology (= the study of how living organisms works): this is
divided into several “sections” (or modules): cardiovascular
physiology, respiratory physiology, uro-genital physiology
(regulation of body fluid volume and composition), immunology,
neuroscience, muskulo-skelettal system, sensory physiology, digestive
physiology, endocrine physiology, digestive physiology, etc, reproductive physiology. One of our reference book is the “Human Physiology- The mechanisms of
body function” by Vander et al but there are other books available on
the topic.
Pathophysiology: this studies the impaired physiological mechanisms
that lead to diseases. There are many books on pathophysiology. Our
reference book is “Robbins Basic Pathology” by Kumar et al.
Anatomy/Neuroanatomy: There are many online available atlas which can
be very useful. Otherwise we use the “Clinically Oriented Anatomy” by
Moore. It contains some text which gives you the importance of your
studied anatomy structure in clinically practice (which makes
studying more interesting in my opinion)
Histology: this studies the organisation of cells and tissues using a
microscope. 
Histopathology: studies the impaired organisation of    cells and
tissues in diseases (with a microscope). Again, there are plenty of books, one commonly used is the “Histology- A text and atlas” by Ross et al
Pathology: macroscopic study of organs from patients with specific
conditions. You can find some online atlas of pathology. Otherwise the
Robbins (see under pathophysiology) is useful too.

I want to emphasise that those books are personal recommendations and that there are other books available on the market which are probably as good as my recommendations (or even better). Also you may wish to consider “Lecture Notes” on the topics, which are basically giving you a summary (when you want to have a quick overview)
Hope this brings some clarifications!

