Q:

Interested in how these particular supplements work together

I feel there's a lack of information about taking a wide variety of supplements, however, people are increasingly taking a wider variety of supplements. I'm interested in finding out how these particular supplements interact with one another, especially over a period of time. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hgFzhae3SEIxHvN0V3P4IRzxJbk-ZsD_Jku8gV83-dQ/edit?usp=sharing.

A:

SE Health is not meant for personal advice. Only your doctor can answer this question based on an evaluation of your medical conditions, medications, allergies, and physical exam.  
What I can do is guide you toward the right resources.
Make a list of these things you are on, a list of your medical history, a list of medication or food reactions you've had in the past, and what you wrote in the question.  Take it with you to the doctor.
Because of the supplements you take and diagnosis of Leaky Gut, I would recommend a doctor who practices functional medicine or a doctor of naturopathy - at least in the USA.  I know for a fact that most MD/DO training does not cover very many alternative medications and supplements.  Part of the reason is that there is limited evidence about some of them, part is that they are not always regulated or safe, and part is that the pharmaceutical industry tends to dominate what is taught in med school (they generate the most evidence through extensive research that costs big $$).  
Treatments of ANY kind range in evidence of effectiveness from 0 to extremely strong, depending on what quality research is able to show us. There IS evidence for safety and efficacy of many alt meds/supplements, but I am not an expert in which resources those are.  
That is why I point you to one of those specialists who DO use those resources regularly.  I have met and listened to a number of very knowledgeable and evidence-based doctors of naturopathy and functional medicine doctors, but that does not mean that all of them practice strongly evidence-based medicine. I recommend that you request that the doctor provide you with the resources that support their recommendations so that you can read further and educate yourself on them.
Medication interaction checkers exist online, but there are a couple caveats.  One, they might not be accurate with supplements (or even have them listed).  Two, there is no way to input your medical history.  If you have damaged your liver drinking, for example, your liver enzymes may not work right and medications can build up or behave differently.  This is why you need a doctor to talk with you for your individual case.
Good luck with your learning process.  It is good that you are asking these questions about safety and your health!  It's just not the right way to ask questions on Health SE.

