Q:

Is it possible to meassure anxiety/stress via data collected from smart watches for a whole region?

A lot of people wear smart watches and other fitness trackers these days. All of which measure at least the wearers pulse, usually a lot more data – even automatically recognizing type of exercise. Some claim to analyze stress levels directly.
The measured data is usually stored on servers of the manufacturer and does provide a large amount of data about individuals across regions, even whole countries.
I know that analysis of data like this is common practice in other fields. However, I’m unsure if the available data from the fitness trackers could provide clear enough pattern for any usable results.
Data access issues aside, to examine the concept of the idea, can the pulse histogram data (for example, of a large amount of people) be used to identify stress and anxiety changes – possibly correlated with events in the given region to analyze their impact?

A:

Tiwari et al, 2019 found poor sensitivity and specificity for detecting stress using multiple features from a fitness watch: sensitivity 0.53, specificity 0.56, and similarly poor for anxiety: sensitivity 0.44, specificity 0.63.
Of course, this measures stress/anxiety in individuals, which is not quite the same as measuring it in populations.
I did not find any study that attempted to do what you describe: estimate population levels of stress or anxiety and correlate this to events, but probably the first step would be to do a validation against some gold-standard assessment.
In research and publishing it's not so much about what is possible, which seems to be a binary "yes it is possible" versus "no it is not possible", and more about impact of a given result. If you show a correlation, will people believe it? They're probably more likely to believe results that confirm their prior expectations, and disbelieve results that oppose them. For a measurement modality without a track record of success, that's the correct behavior. With more use and more evidence that a given measurement accurately reflects reality, people will begin to trust those results more than their preconceived ideas. I don't think this is something you can know or predict without having actually done the research.

Tiwari, A., Cassani, R., Narayanan, S., & Falk, T. H. (2019, July). A comparative study of stress and anxiety estimation in ecological settings using a smart-shirt and a smart-bracelet. In 2019 41st Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC) (pp. 2213-2216). IEEE.

