Q:

How much damage is caused by smoking 2-3 cigarettes on a healthy body?

I do not know how bad does 2-3 cigarettes a day on the average healthy body.
Comments made me point out rightfully, so I have to specify:
"2-3 cigarettes without increasing the dosage over time."
I do not want to include genetic factors on this issue.
So, maybe there is a study or something on this topic.
Does it cause a real damage, or to this quantities the body recovers.

A:

The moment you start smoking a cigarette, the damage to your body begins.
Not only physical, but mental health also begins to decline.
Here are a few things that happen inside a human body once smoking begins...

Apart from nicotine, some 3000+ harmful chemicals enter your body and stir up chemical reactions!
The blood in your body starts to clot.
Nicotine makes your brain to change its functions without you realizing it!
The ability of your lungs to filter bad substances gets reduced and well, over time, it helps you achieve lung cancer.
Over time, low libido, erectile problems will occur.
Women who smoke may invite cervical cancer apart from, pregnancy issues, premature delivery.
Invitation to various types of cancers such as, throat, lips, voice box, tongue besides damage to your nails, hair, skin, you name it!

According to American Academy of Dermatology, smoking contributes in premature ageing.
Ref link: https://www.aad.org/public/skin-hair-nails/anti-aging-skin-care/causes-of-aging-skin
The natural ageing process gets momentum due to chemicals in the cigarette and helps you get wrinkles and stained skin at an early age!
Here are a few things you need to know, if you're going to smoke 2-3 cigarettes/day:
Physical Damage:

Threat to cardiovascular system
Respiratory damage
Brain damage
Damage to reproductive system
Damage to skin, hair, nails
Bad breath

and so on!
Your body does recover initially as its immune system is strong!
As the time passes, and so does the smoke, it also begins to deteriorate and over time, you become eligible to the above mentioned conditions!
So it's upto you to decide whether to let go of your own healthy body into smoke or make it count.
Quit smoking my friend.

