Q:

Why are most people who contract COVID-19 asymptomatic?

Why are most people who contract COVID-19 asymptomatic?
Does it mean that they can fight COVID-19 and recover fast?
Does it mean they have a good immune system to fight coronavirus?

A:

At this point in time no one can say for sure why many people appear to have asymptomatic infection, and figures range from 20-80% though part of the problem appears to be from false positives in antibody tests.  Nevertheless there have been large numbers picked up on rt-PCR who carry the virus but at the time do not show symptoms.  Some, if not most, go on to develop symptoms so they are the pre-symptomatic.
We know there's an age distribution so that those under the age of 5, and those over the age of 60 are more likely to have severe disease, and we know women have less severe disease than men.
We also know that also the virus attacks cells via the ACE2 receptor, as one of its attack points, and these are more numerous in the young, and in women.  So, one could posit that for any given dose or innoculm of virus, then the higher the dose relative to the number of ACE2 receptors, the worse the disease might be.  So, this would explain why it's worse in very young children as they have a smaller body size and fewer cells relative to the inoculum, then as you get older you have the peak number, and then as you age the numbers drop off again so the dose becomes relatively higher.
Then we now know the virus is mutating rapidly and this may explain why symptoms and disease severity may differ rapidly.  And even in the same person you may have a number of different mutations present.
And then there are the odd observations that some children have had asymptomatic viral pneumonia picked up on CT scan.  So, they're developing lower respiratory tract disease without fever.  Fever, muscle aches and pains are often on account of cytokines released during the innate immune response which appears to be highly variable in this disease.  Many people who have died go on to develop a highly active innate immune response called a cytokine storm which causes death.
In all the immune response appears to be highly variable, and there are host factors including co-morbities, that influence the disease response as well as mutations in the virus itself.
http://publichealth.lacounty.gov/phcommon/public/media/mediapubhpdetail.cfm?prid=2328
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.14.20060160v1

A:

The reason why many people who contract COVID-19 are asymptomatic is simple. It is because your immune system can kill the pathogen before you show symptoms. In other words, your body overwhelms the virus before it takes over larger areas of your body.
The answer to your second and third question is yes and no. Most people, that recover quickly without showing symptoms, signifies that they had a good immune system to fight it.
This is the general response to any pathogen that enters your body and is not distinct to COVID-19. Your immune system immediately starts fighting the pathogen off. And if your body is able to find the antibody fast enough, the pathogen will be immobilized and will be restrained from infecting more cells.
My source is these immune system videos:
(1) Immune System, Part 1: Crash Course A&P #45
(2) Immune System, Part 2: Crash Course A&P #46
(3) Immune System, Part 3: Crash Course A&P #47

