Q:

Are elevated platelet levels (yet, still anemic) a symptom of endometriosis? Connection?

for about two years now, my platelet levels have been consistently elevated; not off the charts or anything to be overly alarming, but consistently coming in at about 500. 
And oddly enough, I'm still anemic, so I have to take iron supplements. I thought people with anemia had low platelet levels, yet mine are high so it doesn't make sense to me.  
I have seen a hematologist, and she can't seem to identify anything abnormal to indicate why I have elevated platelets. Also, my WBC is high too, but only about 15. 
My GP & OBGYN think that I might have endometriosis. Would this explain why I have elevated platelets, WBC, but yet am still anemic? Is there any correlation between platelet levels and endometriosis or no? 
Thanks. 

A:

Depending on the laboratories, the upper limit for thrombocytes count varies between 350,000 to 450,000/microL (350 to 450 x 109 /L).
Thrombocytosis refers to the condition where the thrombocyte count is above this upper limit. There are different categories for thrombocytosis: reactive thrombocytosis, autonomous thrombocytosis (in the presence of a myeloproliferative or myelodysplasic disorder) and essential thrombocytosis (a type of myeloproliferative disease).
Here a non exhaustive list of the causes of thrombocytosis:

Nonmalignant hematologic conditions (acute blood loss, iron deficiency anemia, acute hemolytic anemia)
Malignant conditions
Acute and chronic inflammatory conditions (Rheumatologic disorders, vasculitides, inflammatory bowel diseases)
Infections (chronic infections, acute viral or bacterial infections)
Reaction to medications (glucocorticoids)
Tissue damage (myocardial infarction, acute pancreatitis, burns)

I haven't found a direct link between endometriosis and thrombocytosis. However, acute bleeding (which can occur in endometriosis) and resulting iron deficiency anemia (which you suggest you have) are both causes for thrombocytosis.
Sources: Tefferi A. Approach to the patient with thrombocytosis. Uptodate. August 2016

