Q:

Why can we extend the middle finger when there is only one muscle for all fingers?

I'm wondering:
there is the musculus extensor digitorum, that extends finger 2 to 5 up.
There is an extra muscle for the 2. and the 5. finger (m. extensor digiti minimi and m. extensor indicis).
But why can I than lift my middle finger (3. finger) up without lifting my ring finger (4. finger) up?
I mean, when the musculus extensor digitorum is stimulated (by the nervus radialis), shouldn't it than extend EVERY finger (2 to 5), not only one of them?
My guess was that the antagonist of the musculus extensor digitorum is pulling the other fingers back, but the musculi flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus are also just one big muscle, so this doesn't seem to be the right explanation.
Another idea was that I can activate only parts of the nervus radialis  and with that only activate parts of the musculus extensor digitorum. But that doesn't seem to be very likely.
So, what is the reason behind that?

A:

Muscles aren't singular entities, they're made up of multiple muscle fibers. In the case of the extensor digitorum, the muscle fibers are attached to one of various tendons that manipulate the fingers, see e.g. this image:

Häggström, Mikael (2014). "Medical gallery of Mikael Häggström 2014". WikiJournal of Medicine 1 (2). DOI:10.15347/wjm/2014.008. ISSN 2002-4436. Public Domain.
Multiple motoneurons innervate the muscle, and triggering different fibers moves different fingers through the attached tendons. Some sharing of tendons can make it more difficult to move individual fingers, but for most peoples' anatomy this is most difficult for the ring finger and not the others. Hu X, Suresh NL, Xue C, Rymer WZ. Extracting extensor digitorum communis activation patterns using high-density surface electromyography. Front Physiol. 2015 Oct 6;6:279. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2015.00279. PMID: 26500558; PMCID: PMC4593961. refers to both the motoneuron mapping and individual variability:

The extensor digitorum communis muscle plays an important role in hand dexterity during object manipulations. This multi-tendinous muscle is believed to be controlled through separate motoneuron pools, thereby forming different compartments that control individual digits. However, due to the complex anatomical variations across individuals and the flexibility of neural control strategies, the spatial activation patterns of the extensor digitorum communis compartments during individual finger extension have not been fully tracked under different task conditions.

