Q:

Do I have a disorder? (See description)

Now, it is hard to explain for me. But I need to know what is this. Because I have no idea what this is, I might over-explain. I tried Google with lots of different phrases, and it seems as if this needs some human help.
tl;dr: This is related to getting annoyed when lots of stuff is happening. Because of my specific life, this mostly happens when I'm working on my computer.
So basically I get annoyed when lots of different programs are open, or I'm doing lots of different things all with lots of specific details. Instead of tackling a problem step-by-step, sometimes you need to do a lot at once, mostly due to time constraints. For example, as a content writer, sometimes I open five Microsoft Word windows and as I type different things about the same topic, I choose which file to put that piece of content in.

Suppose I create different headings in all of those, and I also have to do some formatting. This becomes "too much" too quickly and I'm on the verge of crushing my teeth into each other.
Perhaps I can't do multitasking, but there's more to it. I can't stand the sight of a computer screen with tons of icons. On my desktop, there are just 5 and that too set in small size. The rest of the screen is empty, mostly pure black. This makes me relaxed.
I can't handle it (mentally) when lots of tabs are open. I must close what I don't need to feel okay and continue. If, due to some reason, I open a lot of tabs, the "chaos" makes me extremely annoyed, unhappy, agitated, and aggressive.
Suppose I have two workspaces open -- one where I am doing some downloading, some disk cleanup, and an antivirus scan -- and on the other one, I am doing some college work that requires at least two software and four to five folders open. This exact situation is what I can't take. Once I clear up the college work and close that workspace, I feel much relieved. This relief is uncommon, nobody should feel so much of it for such a small thing.

In all the mentioned stuff, I can "do" it easily, but I start clenching my teeth while doing such jobs. I start shaking my head every once a while, as if I'm "refreshing" myself to handle the chaos. 
I think I have a disorder, and not knowing what it is just makes me even more annoyed. I am sure somebody here knows what exactly I have. Thanks.

A:

You can't make a diagnosis based on a few behaviours, let alone on a forum. 
If you feel these experiences are interfering with your daily life, then seek professional help - perhaps your doctor or mental health professional (e.g., clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, or psychotherapist).

