Q:

What is the difference between eczema and urticaria?

What is the difference between eczema and urticaria? 
I want to know the pathophysiology and most common causes to understand why they are different !

A:

Eczema (atopic dermatitis)

Atopic dermatitis is a chronic, itchy skin condition that is very
  common in children but may occur at any age. It is also known as
  eczema and atopic eczema and was formerly known as Besnier prurigo. It
  is the most common form of dermatitis.

Pathophysiology

The pathophysiology of atopic dermatitis is complex and
  multifactorial, involving elements of barrier dysfunction, alterations
  in cell mediated immune responses, IgE mediated hypersensitivity, and
  environmental factors. Loss of function mutations in filaggrin have
  been implicated in severe atopic dermatitis due to a potential
  increase in trans-epidermal water loss, pH alterations, and
  dehydration. Other genetic changes have also been identified which may
  alter the skin's barrier function, resulting in an atopic dermatitis
  phenotype.

The causes of eczema are multifactorial,  it relate to a breakdown in the barrier function of the skin, dehydration and an associated immune response and inflammation. For this reason, emollients and topical steroids are commonly used in its management.
Urticaria

Urticaria is characterised by weals (hives) or angioedema (swellings,
  in 10%) or both (in 40%). There are several types of urticaria. The
  name urticaria is derived from the common European stinging nettle
  Urtica dioica.

Pathophysiology

Urticaria is dermal edema resulting from vascular dilatation and
  leakage of fluid into the skin in response to molecules released from
  mast cells. The major preformed mediator histamine produces a
  prototypic, short-lived urticaria. However, the clinical spectrum and
  pattern of lesions indicate that other molecules, including
  prostaglandins, leukotrienes, cytokines, and chemokines, produced at
  different times after mast cell activation contribute to the
  polymorphism of this symptom and the variable evolution of this
  disease.

The Pathophysiology link goes into some detail about the different forms of urticaria, both immunological (e.g. allergy, infection, vaccination) and non-immunologcial (e.g. aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs).
The underlying issue is release of inflammatory mediators from mast cells. Histamine is one of the most common of these molecules, which is why antihistamine drugs are an effective treatment for urticaria.

In summary, eczema is localised to the skin, whereas urticaria represents the cutaneous manifestation of a more systemic process.

Sources:
dermnetnz.org
Pathophysiology of Eczema
Pathophysiology of Urticaria

