Q:

Oxygen saturation value of smokers

A person's O2 saturation, when measured in ambiant air at sea level with a pulse oxymeter (SpO2), is considered as normal between 95 and 100%. 
I've read (non-sourced Wikipedia FR fragment, no mention of this in Wikipedia EN) and heard (informal discussions with medical and rescue staff) that this value decreases significantly if the subject is a smoker.
This raises the following questions:

Is this true, and why? 
What are usual SpO2 values for smokers? 

When I was a smoker, my own SpO2 was usually 100%. The saturation of my smoker colleagues who tried is also normal. This doesn't prove anything as this does not constitute a study - just a bunch of measure without methodolology -, this is just to say I never observed this phenomenon.

A:

The OP observes:

When I was a smoker, my own SpO2 was usually 100%.

Although long-term smoking often does lead to changes in the lungs that cause hypoxemia (low peripheral O2 Saturation, a.k.a. SpO2), these effects are not immediate. In fact, in the short term, SpO2 may even be spuriously high, consistent with your observation. We should distinguish between the factors that drive changes in O2 saturation in long-term when compared to short-term smoking.*
Short term
Another answer discussed the increased carbon monoxide (CO) levels in smokers, which is an immediate effect of the inhaled cigarette smoke that is dose-dependent (i.e. heavy smokers will inhale more CO than light smokers). 
A pulse oximeter measures the percentage of circulating hemoglobin to which oxygen is bound. By standard pulse oximetry, carboxy-hemoglobin is indistinguishable from oxyhemoglobin. Also, carbon monoxide causes a left-shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. This means the hemoglobin is holding onto the oxygen more tightly, resulting in a higher saturation of hemoglobin. It is for both of these reasons that students are often taught about the “cherry red” appearance of skin and mucous membranes in carbon monoxide poisoning.** In contrast to hypoxemia (low SpO2) when mucous membranes tend to turn blue due to low oxygen saturation, the hemoglobin saturation in carbon monoxide poisoning will be seen (both by our eyes and by pulse oximetry) as high. Pulse oximetry may be spuriously high in smokers due to the presence of carboxyhemoglobin. 
In most young, healthy people, oxygen saturation is 98-100% anyway, so this difference is usually negligible. However, the point remains that the OP’s observation is fully consistent with the effects of short-term smoking.
Long-term
Long-term smokers frequently do have low oxygen saturation despite the spurious elevation due to carbon monoxide. A full explanation of the mechanism would require a textbook of respiratory physiology. The basic idea is that the toxins in cigarette smoke lead to inflammation and remodeling in the lung that cause both obstructive pulmonary disease and decreased alveolar diffusing capacity. 
It has been shown that early inflammatory changes are present even in young smokers with normal pulmonary function tests. These microscopic changes in the lung do not cause measurable changes in oxygen saturation or pulmonary function tests. However, evidence like this should reinforce to the OP (and any other former smokers around) how absolutely fabulous it is that you quit smoking.

Notes

*The exact time period (more precisely, number of pack-years) after which the long-term effects begin to dominate the acute effects has substantial inter-individual variability.

**This is rarely seen in real life, and it would only be present in those with higher doses of CO than that incurred from normal cigarette smoking. The theoretical point remains.

A:

Yes, SpO2 levels can be depressed in smokers, but the body will compensate for some of the effects which can explain why you may have had normal saturation levels. There are also age considerations, as well as how much a person smokes.
One of the culprits in cigarette smoke is CO, or Carbon Monoxide. CO shares the same binding sites as O2 in blood hemoglobin (Hg), and actually has 200 times greater affinity than O2. So when you smoke, the CO travels across and prevents some Hg from picking up oxygen. The net result is that your heart starts working harder to get more blood around, which can keep up your sat levels. There is a decent plain English explanation here.
In addition to this, there are other changes that can occur in longtime smokers. This study from 1983 found that in females and smokers over 50 have associated increases in red cell volume and reduced plasma volume. This suggests that the body adapts to the decreased O2 count by producing more RBC's. While this sounds like a great adaptation, it also means that with the reduced plasma volume, the blood is "thicker", which means that the heart has to work harder to push it around.
This article also notes decreased plasma volume and greater RBC counts in long time CO exposure subjects as well as other significant blood composition changes.
TL;DR: Yes, O2 saturation is impaired by continued exposure to CO as a long term effect. However, the good news is that the body is remarkably resilient, and depending on length of time a person smokes, the body will start reversing the effects of smoking within a week or two. Shameless self promotion: Reversing effects of smoking.

