Q:

Why aren't there any competitors in the market for epi-pens?

We've seen recently that the price of epi-pens has been jacked up six-fold due to one company having a monopoly on the market. 
Medically this is quite important as anaphylaxis can kill in seconds. 
My question is: Why aren't there any competitors in the market for epi-pens?

A:

The Ludwig von Mises Institute (Economy Institute) has recently written an article about the lack of EpiPen Competitiors. It provides a good summary:

EpiPen is sold by Mylan, and the price for a pack of two has increased
  from about $100 in 2007 to over $600 as of May 2016. (...) With the
  FDA, patents, and cozy insurance relationships, Mylan has been able to
  steadily increase the price of EpiPens without significant market
  repercussions.
Epinephrine is extremely cheap—just a few cents per dose. The
  complications come from producing the easy auto-injecting devices.
  Mylan “owns” their auto-injector device design, so competitors must
  find work-arounds in their devices to deliver the epinephrine into the
  patient’s body.
A French pharmaceutical company offered an electronic device that
  actually talks people through the steps of administering the drug, but
  it was recalled because of concerns about it delivering the required
  dose. Just this year, Teva Pharmaceutical’s attempt at bringing a
  generic epinephrine injector to market in the US was blocked by the
  FDA. Adrenaclick and Twinject were unable to get insurance companies
  on board and so discontinued their injectors in 2012.
Adrenaclick has since come back, but it is still not covered by many
  insurance plans, and the FDA has made it illegal for pharmacies to
  substitute Adrenaclick as a generic alternative to EpiPen. Another
  company tried to sidestep the whole auto-injector patent barrier by
  offering prefilled syringes, but the FDA has stalled them, too.

https://mises.org/blog/lack-epipen-competitors-fdas-fault
Here another source in the NY Times which provides some insights too:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/25/business/mylan-raised-epipens-price-before-the-expected-arrival-of-a-generic.html?_r=0

