Q:

Antigen vs PCR test

In the Czech Republic there is now mandatory testing for factory employees.
Anecdotally I am now being told by people I am acquainted with, who run medium sized firms here, that their employees are getting about 40 per 1000 rapid antigen positive test results.
These are then sent for PCR tests.
About 1 or 2 of those are coming back with PCR positive results.
So it's looking like about 20 or 40 to 1 antigen tests are false positives.
What's going on here?

A:

The ratio of false positives to true positives (as well as overall "accuracy") is a function of the underlying rate in the population.
Let's imagine you have a test that has 95% specificity. Specificity is the number of negatives that you correctly identify as negative. If you test 1000 negative samples with a 95% specificity test, you will find 95% of them correctly return negative, and the other 5% (=50 tests) return positive. In this case, because we've tested an entirely negative population, 100% of the positive tests are false positives. You will always get this result when you test an entirely negative population, even if your test is 99.999% specific: if you test on entirely negative samples, 100% of the positives are false positives by definition.
Let's instead consider testing a combined population of 500 positive and 500 negative. For simplicity let's assume the test is 100% sensitive while still being 95% specific. 100% of 500=500 positives will test positive, and 5% of 500=25 negatives will test positive. You have a total of 525 positive tests, and only 25/525 (<5%) of these are false positive.

Sensitivity and specificity are a trade-off according to your decision threshold, so if you want to have fewer false negatives it's going to cost you in more false positives. For antigen screening followed up by PCR, the goal is to set a threshold for the antigen test that results in few false negatives, to avoid infected people from spreading to their coworkers. However, you expect you are going to get a lot of false positives that way, which is why the strategy is to then follow up on these tests with PCR. A combined positive on the antigen test + follow-up PCR test is much less likely to be a false positive.
The purpose of the antigen test here is less to identify true positive cases, and instead it is to add a rapid way to isolate potential positives and to make the most efficient use of the PCR test.
You can use Bayesian statistics to better interpret results after a test if you start out with a prior understanding of expected ratios of positive to negative cases in the population you're testing.

