Q:

Is it possible to never grow a full beard

I'm almost 30 now and have never been able to grow a full beard. 
It's not a thick beard either and quite patchy in places especially around my cheeks and jawline. 
My brothers have been able to grow thick full beards since they were teenagers but it doesn't look I can as last time I tried I grew it out for three months and it just looked like an old brush with bristles missing. 
At this point I'm not sure it's possible but would be nice to read some success stories as I'm sure there are some. 
Thanks 

A:

Growing a beard is mostly due to genetics and your sensitivity to testosterone levels:

When people have no facial hair, they tend to think it’s because of the fact that they have low testosterone. That’s not the case, it’s actually based on how sensitive your body is to testosterone. In other words, if you are highly sensitive to it, you’re going to have a lot more hair on your face and body. The good news for those without much or any facial hair is that they don’t have to worry about being bald later on in life
The Royal Beard Club

As has been pointed out, a commercial site does have it's own interest. While I have been struggling through an advertisement jungle to find free sources that back up the first claim (hair growth is related to hair follicle sensitivity to testosterone), I have been able to find a source backing up the second claim (that hair loss is related to hair follicle sensitivity to testosterone):

It’s not the amount of testosterone or DHT that causes baldness; it’s the sensitivity of your hair follicles. That sensitivity is determined by genetics. The AR gene makes the receptor on hair follicles that interact with testosterone and DHT. If your receptors are particularly sensitive, they are more easily triggered by even small amounts of DHT, and hair loss occurs more easily as a result. Other genes may also play a part.
Healthline.com
Alternatively WebMD.com

So, to answer your question: Yes, it is totally possible to be unable to grow a beard, and there’s not much one can do about beard thickness.

