Q:

How would a medical scientist go about researching a cure for hiccups?

This is inspired by this old question of mine on Skeptics.

Can scaring a person cure hiccups?

Someone posted in comments:

The point is, this doesn't appear to be amenable to research, because it's not possible to induce hiccups. A scientist couldn't just walk around waiting for passersby to hiccup so he could test cures on them. It might be possible to induce hiccups by tickling a nerve, as I've heard of such things causing sustained hiccupping before, but that seems unlikely to pass an ethics committee. And if tickling the nerve caused hiccupping, would any cure work except to stop tickling the nerve? So in sum, I don't think you're going to find any scientific work on this.

I know literally nothing about how medical research is done, so I thought it would be a good idea to ask if here.
As I said, I'm a layperson, so when I'm trying googling that, all I can find is pop science sites which don't cite any sources, and I don't have paid access to research archives.
Do medical scientists research cures and reasons for short, passing conditions like (brief, non-chronic) hiccups, sneezes, heartburns, headaches, flatulence and such like; mildly irritating things that everyone has once in a while but that are not generally deemed worthy of a doctor visit and that are hard to track? If yes, what's the usual approach to making this kind of research?
All I could find on Google was how clinical studies for drugs are done, with examples to roughly this effect:

Phase II studies are usually conducted at a small number of specialist clinical centres using carefully selected patients to provide a relatively homogeneous group to allow efficacy to be evaluated using small groups (circa 100 per treatment group).

Do they perform studies on something that most people have but don't go to clinical centers with (like hiccups once a month)?

A:

Medical scientists go about trying to discover a cure for hiccups by trying things on people with intractable hiccups, not by trying to induce hiccups. The latter, as you were already informed, is unethical.
One of the basic tenets of medicine is "First do no Harm". As hiccups are pretty complex and involve the nervous system, there's a good chance that we could do real harm to a patient by trying to induce them, i.e. what if, in doing so, we caused intractable hiccups, requiring medications to treat (if they were treatable)? That is real harm.
Research should always be done ethically; it's not, but it should be, and situation ethics don't count. That's why research ethics boards exist to approve or deny funding for research.

There are three important obligations placed on the ethics committee. Firstly, and most importantly, the ethics committee must ensure that the rights of research participants are protected. This is achieved by ensuring that individuals receive sufficient information, which can be easily understood, and ensuring that appropriate strategies are in place to protect participants from potential adverse consequences of the research.

Edited to add: Minor things come to a health care provider's attention when they're frequent enough to be annoying, or worse, disruptive. There is a lot of research into most of the things things you've listed as irritating but not worthy of a doctor visit. Not hiccups (unpredictable), but heartburn? Do a Google Scholar search of GERD (frequent heartburn). It's a very costly condition both physiologically and financially. While an occasional headache might not seem like much, it's still been studied, as has flatulence and sneezing. "Trivial" things (e.g. the common cold) might have an enormous financial impact (missed work days due to illness, a parent who must stay home with a sick child, etc.), and the amount of research into the common cold is astounding.
Finally, scientists are curious people and like to understand how things work, so what might seem trivial to you might be intriguing to a scientist.

