Q:

Will 70% isopropyl alcohol deactivate i.e. kill COVID-19?

Today the CDC released an official list of what kills the COVID-19 virus but the list does not mention 70% isopropyl alcohol.
This is a fairly basic disinfectant and it seems it should have been on the list assuming it kills the virus and that is why I am asking. Thank you

A:

Yes, it does.
According to the CDC, this is how surfaces should be disinfected:

Surfaces

Wear disposable gloves when cleaning and disinfecting surfaces. Gloves should be discarded after each cleaning. If reusable gloves are
  used, those gloves should be dedicated for cleaning and disinfection
  of surfaces for COVID-19 and should not be used for other purposes.
  Consult the manufacturer’s instructions for cleaning and disinfection
  products used. Clean hands immediately after gloves are removed.
If surfaces are dirty, they should be cleaned using a detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.
For disinfection, diluted household bleach solutions, alcohol solutions with at least 70% alcohol, and most common EPA-registered
  household disinfectants should be effective.

Diluted household bleach solutions can be used if appropriate for the surface. Follow manufacturer’s instructions for application
  and proper ventilation. Check to ensure the product is not past its
  expiration date. Never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other
  cleanser. Unexpired household bleach will be effective against
  coronaviruses when properly diluted.

Prepare a bleach solution by mixing:
  
  
5 tablespoons (1/3rd cup) bleach per gallon of water or
4 teaspoons bleach per quart of water

A list of products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims, maintained by the American Chemistry Council Center for
  Biocide Chemistries (CBC), is available at:
  https://www.americanchemistry.com/Novel-Coronavirus-Fighting-Products-List.pdf.
  Products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims are
  expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to
  kill viruses. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for all cleaning
  and disinfection products (e.g., concentration, application method and
  contact time, etc.).

For soft (porous) surfaces such as carpeted floor, rugs, and drapes, remove visible contamination if present and clean with
  appropriate cleaners indicated for use on these surfaces. After
  cleaning: Launder items as appropriate in accordance with the
  manufacturer’s instructions. If possible, launder items using the
  warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items
  completely, or Use products with the EPA-approved emerging viral
  pathogens claims (examples at this linkpdf iconexternal icon) that are
  suitable for porous surfaces.

A:

The List does mention Isopropyl Alcohol. It's sixth on the list, and it's listed by its other name--Isopropanol. 
Isopropanol=Isopropyl Alcohol. Just like Ethanol=Ethyl Alcohol.

