Q:

Do the hands fist after a body is hanged?

Recently, I lost a loved one to suicide by hanging. There was a man who arrives at him at some point after the person committed suicide. The man did not make any attempts to save the victim, saying the victim was already dead. On the other hand, he says that the hands were fisted. Do fist hands not mean the victim was alive back then? I suspect if the body was dead, the hands ought to have been loosened already. Could there have been a shortcoming in saving the victim?
It's very tough time for me to find the truth given that the person arrived about 30 minutes after the deceased committed suicide (based on the timing given by rigor mortis) and that he had some old resentments with the decreased.

A:

First off, my condolences on your loss.
No one can tell you whether the person was alive when found or if more could be done because that would be pure speculation. We don't have sufficient information to even make an educated guess. But I can tell you that finding the fists clinched alone is not sufficient to conclude that they were still alive or that more could have been done.
Normally, when cardiac arrest occurs, all the muscles in the body go limp immediately and stay that way until rigor sets in. However, what you've described fits the phenomenon known as Cadaveric Spasm very closely, as you can see from this description:

Cadaveric spasm is a condition in which a group of muscles that were
used profusely just before death becomes stiff and rigid immediately
after death.[24] This ‘instantaneous rigor’ mostly involves hands,
very rarely, the entire body may undergo cadaveric spasm. It can occur
in assaults involving a scuffle before death, in suicides, and cases
of drowning, etc. In such scenario, the victim’s hand presents as
rigid and clenched, holding/ grasping on to the clothing, buttons, or
hair, etc. of the assailant (in assault), maybe holding the weapon
used for committing suicide, or the weeds, gravel mud, etc. from the
water bed (in drowning). While rigor mortis provides information about
time since death, the cadaveric spasm is valuable in commenting on the
manner of death.

Your description matches several key points in the description above:

In a hanging death, it's quite likely the victim struggled and
clutched at the rope in the final moments, thereby using their hand
muscles profusely.
It was a suicide.
"the victim’s hand presents as rigid and clenched" -- as did yours.

So you can't base any conclusions on what the first arriving person found and what they should or should not have done based on the clinched fists.
EDIT:
Cadaveric spasm was described in JAMA in 1898.

