Q:

Pimples: Causes and Cures?

I am thirteen years old and have quite a few pimples. I have a couple of questions:
1. What causes them?
2. When I pop them(I try not too) they ooze out sticky fluid. What is it?
3. How can I stop them? Every morning and night, I rinse my face, then     wash my face(with soap) and rinse again, then scrub with sugar, then put on some medicine.

A:

Simply put - skin cells, sebum and hair can clump together into a plug, this plug gets infected with bacteria, resulting in a swelling. A pimple starts to develop when the plug begins to break down.
According to Wikipedia: 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pimples
“A pimple is a result of a blockage of the skin's pore. 
 Inside the pore are sebaceous glands which produce sticky sebum. When the outer layers of skin shed (as it does continuously), the dead skin cells left behind may become 'glued' together by the sticky sebum. This causes a blockage in the pore. The sebaceous glands produce more sebum which builds up behind the blockage, and this sebum harbours bacteria (P.Acnes bacteria). Since the body's natural defence against bacteria is primarily phagocytes (white blood cells), these rush to the site behind the blockage (where the bacteria are). This is what gives some pimples the 'whiteheads' (unless the Phagocytes are deeper in the skin, which means you can't see the 'white' caused by them). The white blood cells then destroy (by phagocytosis) the bacteria to prevent infection.”
Over-the-counter medications
Common over-the-counter medications for pimples are benzoyl peroxide and/or salicylic acid and antibacterial agents such as triclosan. Both medications can be found in many creams and gels used to treat acne (acne vulgaris) through topical application. Both medications help skin slough off more easily, which helps to remove bacteria faster. Before applying them the patient needs to wash his or her face with warm water and dry
Home-remedies

Dab some lemon juice on it

Lemon juice can help get rid of breakouts for a number of reasons. It is rich in vitamin C, which is good for all types of skin, and it’s a citric acid, so it helps ‘exfoliate’ the skin as well. Most importantly though, it is an astringent. An astringent will cause a contraction of body tissues, and will therefore dry out the blemish itself.

The land of milk and honey (or yogurt)

The reason it is suggested that milk would cause acne is because of the extra hormones in it-but unless it’s ingested, this doesn’t really do much. For the most part, it just soothes the irritated skin, and helps tone down the redness.

Whip up some ‘whites

Egg whites are an easy and affordable way to help reduce acne and fade scars left by unfortunate blemishes. The reason people have found egg whites to be helpful for their skin is because they’re chock full of proteins and vitamins that both combat acne, and help to rebuild your skin cells.
For more home-remedies and directions on how to apply them, visit:
http://everydayroots.com/acne-remedies

