Q:

Mitigating / Stopping hiccups

Hiccups can be annoying. I've heard about ways to stop them including breath holding, drinking warm water, and breathing really quickly, but these don’t seem to be consistently effective.  What sorts of interventions can be helpful for mitigating or even stopping hiccups?

A:

I summarized the mechanism of hiccups in a question on biology.SE a few months ago. That may be useful background information for the answer to this question about what interventions work.
Regarding the available data, as usual a Cochrane Review provides the best meta-analysis, and as usual they conclude that there is insufficient evidence for anything. However, in practicality there are decent observational data available.
Because hiccups stem from a reflex arc involving the vagal nerve, physical maneuvers that stimulate the vagus often abort hiccups.
These may include:   

Breath holding
Valsalva maneuver (exhaling against a closed glottis)
Stimulating the nasopharynx or glottis (e.g. gargling cold water; upside down is often (reasonably) recommended to route water up into the nasopharynx where is is more likely to cause vagal stimulation)

If none of these is successful, medications are occasionally used. The oldest and most well-established treatment is chlorpromazine (a.k.a. Thorazine), a first-generation antipsychotic. Although it is approved by the U.S. FDA for treatment of hiccups, even that has only been studied in small case series, mostly in patients with hiccups due to cancer. Other medications that are sometimes used off-label include metoclopramide (a.k.a. Reglan) and baclofen. Although the studies of these medications are small, they do appear to be effective.
Most often, hiccups are benign, often triggered by gastric distention from over-eating or carbonated beverages. However, particularly intractable hiccups have been associated with serious conditions including intracranial problems such as stroke or encephalitis as well as many different kinds of cancer. If hiccups are occurring very frequently or are difficult to resolve, you should consult with a doctor. 

References
 

1. Guelaud C, Similowski T, Bizec JL, Cabane J, Whitelaw WA, Derenne JP. Baclofen therapy for chronic hiccup. Eur Respir J. 1995 Feb;8(2):235-7.
2. Friedgood CE et al. Chlorpromazine (thorazine) in the treatment of intractable hiccups. J Am Med Assoc. 1955 Jan 22;157(4):309-10. 
3. Friedman NL. Hiccups: a treatment review. Pharmacotherapy. 1996 Nov-Dec;16(6):986-95. 
4. Kolodzik PW, Eilers MA. Hiccups (singultus): review and approach to management. Ann Emerg Med. 1991 May;20(5):565-73. 
5. Moretto EN, Wee B, Wiffen PJ, Murchison AG. Interventions for treating persistent and intractable hiccups in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jan 31;1.
6. Wang T, Wang D. Metoclopramide for patients with intractable hiccups: a multicentre, randomised, controlled pilot study. Intern Med J. 2014 Dec;44(12a):1205-9.

