Q:

H. pylori-caused Bad Breath: how does it smell like?

One of my relatives has bad breath. Common causes, including dry oral cavity, poor dental health, dirty tongue coating, tonsil stones, are ruled out. We now suspect that H. pylori is the culprit.
He experiences stomachache sometimes, and is going to have a H. pylori breath test. Also, saliva samples taken nearer to oesophagus have a stronger smell, suggesting certain relation to stomach/lungs problems.
However, even the test result is positive, H. pylori might not be the actual cause. It is well known that (in our city) nearly one third of the population is infected by this bacteria, but often no symptoms can be observed.
So, I want to make a primary test before seeking advice from professionals. 

How does H. pylori-caused halitosis smell like? (please be descriptive and use simile)

Some Google results suggest that the breath smells like volatile sulphur compound. However this is strongly disagreed by some articles. A few articles suggested a smell of urine, but did not give any evidence.
Thanks in advance.

A:

SUMMARY:

Individuals with H. pylori infection of the stomach can have increased amounts of the following substances in the breath:

Sulfides: hydrogen sulfide (rotten eggs smell), dimethyl sulfide (cabbage-like smell), methyl mercaptane (rotten cabbage smell)
Isobutane (petroleum-like odor), 2-butanone (pungent sweet odor) and ethyl acetate (fruity odor)
Hydrogen nitrate (choking odor) and nitric oxide (sharp sweet-smelling) 
Hydrogen cyanide (bitter almonds smell)

The variety of the substances comes from different strains of H. pylori in different individuals and, I assume, from different foods consumed.
According to this 2005 review (Table 3), hydrogen nitrate with choking odor seems to be most specific, but not likely diagnostic, for H. pylori. Isobutane, 2-butanone and ethyl acetate smell like ketones in a low-carb diet or uncontrolled diabetes. Sulfide and cyanide smell can appear in various other infections.
The mentioned breath odors are not anatomic-specific and may arise not only from the stomach (H. pylori) but also from the mouth (parodontosis), throat (tonsil stones), or lungs (atelectasis).
Symptoms, like upper abdominal bloating and excessive belching after meals, can help in diagnosis of H. pylori.

EVIDENCE:
Gastrointestinal diseases and halitosis: association of gastric Helicobacter pylori infection (PUbMed, 2002):

The levels of hydrogen sulphide and dimethyl sulphide in mouth
  air were also significantly higher in the [H pylori] positive
  patients...

Determination of volatile organic compounds in human breath for Helicobacter pylori detection by SPME-GC/MS (PubMed, 2011):

isobutane, 2-butanone and ethyl acetate were detected in the breath of persons with H. pylori in the stomach...

H. pylori infection increases levels of exhaled nitrate (PubMed, 2005):

...in H. pylori-infected patients, levels of exhaled hydrogen
  nitrate and hydrogen cyanide are found to be significantly
  elevated.

Clinical Application of Volatile Organic Compound Analysis for Detecting Infectious Diseases (PUbMed, 2013):
This review again mentions isobutane, 2-butanone, ethyl acetate, HCN and hydrogen nitrate in the breath of H pylori infected patients, but HCN is also detectable in exhaled-breath samples of P. aeruginosa-infected individuals.
DOES HELICOBACTER PYLORI INFECTION INCREASE THE LEVELS OF EXHALED NITRIC OXIDE?
(SagePub, 2013):

It seems that H. pylori-associated gastritis is accompanied by an
  increased level of exhaled nitric oxide...

According to this study, H. pylori was shown to produce hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan...

