Q:

Drinking fruit juice by blender is a risk for diabetes?

I eat fruit juice blended by blender every night. I use a blender to blend Watermelon, Lychee, Melon etc. Is the sugar from the fruit a risk for diabetes?

A:

The question is about whole fruits vs blended fruits (smoothies), but I haven't found any studies about smoothies, so I included those about fruit juices. Both the smoothies and the fruit juices are liquid, so they pass the stomach faster than whole fruits, which can result in higher blood glucose spikes (a possible risk factor for diabetes). The other aspect is that smoothies probably contain about the same amount of fiber than whole fruits, while fruit juices contain much less fiber. Fiber likely decreases blood glucose spikes after meals.
Concluding from academic.oup.com, blending fruits probably does not affect the fiber in the nutritional sense:

The quantitative measurement of dietary fiber does not recognize its
  diverse actions on nutrient absorption...

According to 2 systematic reviews of studies, intake of 100% fruit juice (no sugar added) is not associated with diabetes type 2.
Intake of fruit juice and incidence of type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis (PubMed, 2014)

A higher intake of sugar-sweetened fruit juice was significantly
  associated with risk of type 2 diabetes, while intake of 100% fruit
  juice was not associated with risk of developing type 2 diabetes.

100 % Fruit juice and measures of glucose control and insulin sensitivity: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (PubMed, 2017)

Overall, findings from this meta-analysis of RCT suggest a neutral
  effect of 100 % fruit juice on glycaemic control. These findings are
  consistent with findings from some observational studies suggesting
  that consumption of 100 % fruit juice is not associated with increased
  risk of diabetes.

However, according to one 2015 systematic review:

both artificially sweetened beverages and fruit juice were unlikely to
  be healthy alternatives to sugar sweetened beverages for the
  prevention of type 2 diabetes.

And finally, according to one study, which followed nurses for 18 years: 
Intake of Fruit, Vegetables, and Fruit Juices and Risk of Diabetes in Women (PubMed, 2008):

Consumption of green leafy vegetables and fruit was associated with a
  lower hazard of diabetes, whereas consumption of fruit juices may be
  associated with an increased hazard among women.

