Q:

What is the solution for Chikungunya?

In India many of the people are hugely affected by Chikungunya disease and doctors couldn't wipe out this disease here. In our locality almost every household has some Chikungunya patients.
Is there any complete cure of this disease. Are there effective do's and don'ts recommended?

A:

Since 'the cure' or rather a vaccine against the virus is still only on the horizon, affected populations have to resort to prevention measures and supportive care, once the infection breaks out. Even with a vaccine, mosquito population control and bite prevention will be necessary to control chikungunya disease.
Chikungunya at the Door — Déjà Vu All Over Again

We now face a new threat posed by the unrelated chikungunya virus, which causes a disease clinically similar to dengue in a similar epidemiologic pattern, which is transmitted by the same mosquito vectors, and for which we also lack vaccines and specific treatments. […] Thus, the current chikungunya threat to the United States must be met primarily with standard public health approaches such as mosquito control and avoidance. In addition, there is an important role for astute clinicians in diagnosing and reporting the disease when it occurs.

The Do's include limiting the habitat and reach of the mosquitos. 
If possible any open still waters should be drained, closed or covered. Uneven spots of ground where puddles are forming after a rain should be filled with earth or other material. Wholes in a road should be fixed as soon as possible.
Tightly woven screens in front of doors and windows might help to keep the insects out of homes, nets around beds to keep those already in away from sleeping humans. Wearing long clothes helps to prevent the incidents of bites.
Insect repellent chemicals like DEET, p-Menthane-3,8-diol or Icaridin applied to the exposed skin, clothing and even parts of a house structure might help to keep them away. If those strong chemicals arr either not available, not affordable or not well tolerated by the people who should apply them, much weaker natural repellents might be worth a try. 
Since the disease vector is an insect, very targeted and limited usage of pesticides might be an option to consider. This is an option that has rather wide spread consequences beyond just killing the mosquitos and those might develop resistance or already are resistant to the chemicals to employed there. Most of those insecticides are not really safe for humans to use and the actual way they are used (misused, misapplied, over-dosed, under-dosed etc.) might have a net effect that's undesirable.
A more humane and less environmental destructive method of limiting the number of mosquitos is to trap them. Their are two ways in principle to achieve this: either sexual stimulation with pheromones, leading the insects to sticky traps from where they do not escape. Or exploiting their target acquisition system, by presenting them decoy signals that will steer a significant number of them away from humans and animals and into the traps.
Since a significant number of infections result from bites of the insects while being outside, long clothing, repellents should be among the first things to do for individuals. A number of larger scale fan traps might be worth to try in a community effort to decrease the spread of the insects and reduce the number of bites for people being outside.
Although it is about the similar disease called Dengue fever, this guide:
Vector Management and Delivery of Vector Control Services –  and others like it – should be read  and everything in there that an individual can do should be put into action and tried as soon as possible. If any aspect in there is of a size too large for individuals these components should be addressed by the local community and even escalated to higher authorities.

