Q:

Does sleep irregularity affect my brain and health?

For more than two years I have been  sleeping irregularity. Sometimes I go to the bed at 10am, some days it may 10pm.There no regularity to when I sleep. 
Also, sleep time may differ. Sometimes I sleep 12-14 hours long and sometimes I am awake for 24 hours. Can this behavior affect my brain or health in the long term? 

A:

Sleep irregularity

In children, values for lower sleep duration were found to be strongly associated with increased metabolic risk.

Although obese children did not display radically different total weekly sleep durations, compared with their normal-weight counterparts, analyses of SV throughout the week revealed that obese children were less likely to experience “catch-up” sleep on weekends and the combination of shorter sleep duration and more-variable sleep patterns was associated with adverse metabolic outcomes. Source: Sleep Duration, Sleep Regularity, Body Weight, and Metabolic Homeostasis in School-aged Children

Adequate sleep each day is noted to be very important for learning and memory.

In the view of many researchers, evidence suggests that various sleep stages are involved in the consolidation of different types of memories and that being sleep deprived reduces one’s ability to learn. Although open questions (and debate) remain, the overall evidence suggests that adequate sleep each day is very important for learning and memory. Source: Sleep, Learning, and Memory

Several sleep hygiene practices are recommended here to regulate one's sleep.

TL;DR: Adults are recommended to sleep at least for seven hours per night on a regular basis.

Sleeping less than 7 hours per night on a regular basis is associated with adverse health outcomes, including weight gain and obesity, diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and stroke, depression, and increased risk of
  death. Sleeping less than 7 hours per night is also associated with impaired immune function, increased pain, impaired performance, increased errors, and greater risk of accidents. Source: Recommended Amount of Sleep for a Healthy Adult

