Q:

Are treatments for (hyper/hypo)parathyroidism mutually exclusive from treatmeants to (hyper/hypo)calcemia?

Summarized in the table below the drugs that were listed in my professor's lecture slides for the treatment of Hyperparathyroidism (first column) and hypoparathyroidism (second column)

Are treatments for (hyper/hypo)parathyroidism mutually exclusive from treatmeants to (hyper/hypo)calcemia?

That is, I have to decide whether I am willing to treat the calcium disorder or the parathyroid disorder, but I can't target both at the same time, is this correct?
While studying, I thought that if, for example, we were to treat hyperparathyroidism by giving cincalcet (which lowers PTH), and then we decide to give Furosemide (which lowers calcium).
Wouldn’t that be arbitrary and pointless? especially that if we lower calcium by furosemide then we are inducing hypocalcemia which would stimulate PTH release all over again.

My point is, we can’t use Furosemide to treat hyperparathyroidism, but we can use it to treat hypercalcemia provided that no PTH-lowering drugs were used.

In the same vein, using teriparatide (↑PTH) and thiazide diuretics (↑Ca) simultaneously would counteract the efforts towards treating hypoparathyroidism and culminate in lowering PTH all over again. Am I right?

Attached below are the original lecture slides, for your reference

A:

The 1 dislike on the Q seems to be right as no research effort has been put but still assuming being a student having doubts and and is still in theory stage (inexperienced) i would try to answer.
Your questions seems to be flawed as you are not taking into account what is the cause of hyper/hypo states

e.g.in hypo-parathyroidism if the cause is surgical excision of glands then shouldnt, we treat the both the cause and effect i.e. treat the hypoparathyroid state with teriparatide (rPTH) and effect of hypoparathyroidism specifically hypocalcemia using calcium supplements, thiazides conserving calcium by decreasing excretion, and using Vit D which has effects at mutiple levels
similary in hyperparathyroid state if the cause of hypercalcemia is an adenoma then shouldn't we treat the functional adenoma and its effects - that is treat the hyperparathyroidism by giving cinalcet and treat the effect hypercalemia by causing excretion using furosemide.

Hope this clarifies. This answer is targetted at UG level because beyond that guidelines based on severity of states would be better to answer. what to use in which situation.

