Q:

Are there any side-effects for using deodorant daily?

I use Park Avenue deodorants (generally cool blue & now using leap). I daily use it at my underarms after coming from bath; daily means daily. I normally have to go out for library, tuition etcetera; before going anywhere I use the deo as it helps to sweat less & prevent any odour. So, I apply deo after bath, before going somewhere.
But yesterday, I met my cousin, a medical correspondent, who noticed my using of deo after taking bath; she then warned not to use it daily as it would darken the underarm places & in severe conditions, it may even emanate infection, skin problems.
I really got shocked; but didn't pay heed as it was written in the back that it should be used after bath.
But really, is(are) there any side-effects of using deo daily that I should need to bother at? It is of dire need as it prevents all those stinky odour & sweatiness. But really should I be in problem for my daily use? 

A:

I had never heard about what your cousin refers to. Most studies about the impact of deodorants that I have ever found were regarding its effect on patients undergoing radiation therapy for breast cancer.
Even then, there does not seem to exist any evidence that deodorant increases the risk of breast cancer, as seen here:

We found no evidence from the combined published studies that deodorant promotes development of breast cancer, despite in vitro evidence supporting the parabens hypothesis

This matter is also approached in a French study:

Aucune étude prospective épidémiologique n’a, à ce jour,démontré cette hypothèse, mais l’angoisse générée par cesspéculations  pseudoscientifiques  amène  régulièrement  denombreuses patientes et femmes à questionner leur médecinsur l’innocuité d’utilisation de ces produits. (...) Au final, il semble possible d’affirmer que cette question neconstitue pas un problème de santé publique et qu’il apparaîtdonc inutile de poursuivre les recherches sur ce sujet.

Even at Cancer.Gov they say:

However, researchers at the National Cancer Institute (NCI), a part of the National Institutes of Health, are not aware of any conclusive evidence linking the use of underarm antiperspirants or deodorants and the subsequent development of breast cancer. 

Overall, it seems safe to use deodorants. At least I haven't find any evidence otherwise.

