Q:

What is considered moderate when referring to (sub)acute hypertension, hyperthermia and tachycardia?

I'm reading about the toxicology of LSD, and the acute and subacute adverse effects (hypertension, hyperthermia, tachycardia) have been described as moderate in this article, modest in this article (page 2) and significant in this article (page 10). The second article cites the first and third articles when stating the modesty of the aforementioned effects.
By what standards are they designating these acute and subacute adverse effects moderate? Is there a scale one can look at to give the different safety levels of the intensity adverse reactions to pharmacological agents relative to their duration? According to this article, if one were to have these blood pressures chronically, then it'd be a problem. However, these effects are only acute, which probably increases the safety levels. According to the the first and third articles, there was little to no increase in adverse reaction between the LSD-ingesting and placebo-control groups.

A:

"Moderate" and "modest" are just descriptive adjectives. They don't have any quantitative meaning, and I'm not aware of any effort to standardize their meaning for these sorts of measures (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature), nor do the authors reference any such effort in using those terms. I think it would be fair to characterize these adjectives as referring to effects that are measurable but not of immediate clinical concern according to the authors. However, experts could of course vary on what sizes of effects they consider clinically concerning. One might compare to other types of "normal" baselines besides rest, like parameters one would observe during moderate exercise, but these authors haven't done that directly.
"Significant" is refering to statistical hypothesis testing, where "significant" refers to an effect that passes some predetermined threshold for deciding an effect is unlikely to have resulted purely by chance. Statistical significance says very little to nothing about the size of an effect, besides saying that it is probably different from zero. If you had a sufficiently sensitive scale (and/or a large enough sample size), you could weigh people before and after eating a cough drop and state that cough drops cause significant weight gain. After all, someone's weight after eating a ~3 gram cough drop will be approximately equal to their prior weight plus the 3 gram weight of a cough drop. There is a push in medical statistics these days to emphasize measures of effect size instead of or in addition to measures of statistical significance to avoid overstating the importance of effects that are statistically, but not clinically, significant.

