Q:

Can side effects on test drug be not fully disclosed and still ethical?

Say a doctor invites a patient to test a new drug, because there is currently no effective drug to cure the illness. The patient says "I trust that what you are doing is best for my benefit. I'll take it." 
But to avoid placebo/psychological effect, are they allowed to not fully disclose all side effects that the drug has, even when they know it? For example, they know ahead that the drug will make the patient nausea and body burning, but they just say that it will make them mildly dizzy. Is that ethical? The patient should have been informed all these effects before accepting the experiment – failing to do that breaks the trust they put on the doctor. But if telling their expectations to the side effects can distort the actual results.
I'm interested in the case of no treatment is available, but without a treatment the patients only continue to suffer the illness, not die.

Related: Is it ethical to deliberately provide incorrect information to participants in a psychological study?

A:

There are 2 questions here:

Is not disclosing potential side effects during a clinical trial ethical?
What does the "informed consent" of a clinical trial say about disclosing side effects?

According to Understanding Informed Consent
 by CenterWatch:

If you have given consent to participate in a clinical trial...you are
  entitled to the following rights:

To be told about all the risks, side effects, or discomforts that might be reasonably expected...

BUT

If you want to know details, such as any documented side effects of a
  particular drug observed in earlier clinical trials, you must ask
  for that information...

...which suggests that they might not tell you the exact side effects if you don't specifically ask them.
BUT,
if you read a suggestion about informed consent by World Health Organization, they say that

Potential participants should be told if there are any known or
  anticipated side effects...

So, it depends whom you ask and what someone believes about what is good and what not.

I think if in previous trials no deaths or other side effects with permanent consequences or other severe side effects have occurred, it may be acceptable to not disclose them - if the participants are informed that they may occur, they agree with this, they believe it's good that they participate in the trial and they are in peace with this.
Or, as said here: Informed consent in clinical research: Revisiting few concepts and areas (PubMed, 2013):

How much or up to what extent the information should be provided on various aspects of research, such as risks and benefits associated
  with study intervention, is not clear and is rather a subjective
  approach depending on the investigator. For example, recounting or
  repetition of possible adverse effects of a study treatment may make
  that treatment ill-advised when the treatment is not that risky. On
  the contrary, if a lately appearing adverse effect is not disclosed to
  the patient, it raises question on the validity of the consent as the
  information was not provided adequately. Therefore, researchers are
  recommended to provide the study-related information adequately,
  judiciously, and truly maintaining an ethical balance between
  expected risks and benefits of the intervention under investigation.

