Q:

Can gynecomastia breast tissues be dissolved?

If one takes zinc and vitamin D then the T levels increase. 
So oestrogen must decrease and thus gynecomastia goes away.
But this site says that the breast tissues can never be dissolved even if the hormones are balanced. Is it true?

A:

No, it's not true that the breast tissue caused by gynecomastia can never go away. According to the Mayo Clinic (emphasis mine):

Most cases of gynecomastia regress over time without treatment.
  However, if gynecomastia is caused by an underlying condition, such as
  hypogonadism, malnutrition or cirrhosis, that condition may need
  treatment. If you're taking medications that can cause gynecomastia,
  your doctor may recommend stopping them or substituting another
  medication.

So the first step in dealing with gynecomastia is to identify and treat the factor causing it. That may mean treating an underlying condition or it may mean stopping or changing medications. Once that's been addressed all that's needed is time, and the time needed can be measured in months or even years. 
If the breast tissue doesn't go away despite appropriate treatment and the sufferer finds the tissue intolerable, two options remain: medication and surgery. Again, according to Mayo:

Medications
Medications used to treat breast cancer and other conditions, such as
  tamoxifen (Soltamox), raloxifene (Evista) and aromatase inhibitors
  (Arimidex), may be helpful for some men with gynecomastia. Although
  these medications are approved by the Food and Drug Administration,
  they have not been approved specifically for this use.
Surgery to remove excess breast tissue
If you still have significant
  bothersome breast enlargement despite initial treatment or
  observation, your doctor may advise surgery. Two gynecomastia surgery
  options are:
Liposuction. This surgery removes breast fat, but not the breast gland
  tissue itself. 
Mastectomy. This type of surgery removes the breast
  gland tissue. The surgery is often done endoscopically, meaning only
  small incisions are used. This less invasive type of surgery involves
  less recovery time.

