Q:

Is a vaginal birth still medically preferable over a c-section?

I was always taught by my mom (who studied nursing and midwifery 30 years ago) that a vaginal birth is vastly preferable over a c-section in low-risk pregnancies. 
I'm not a medical professional, but my understanding from what she's said is that the baby benefits by moving through the birth canal and the recovery time for the mother is much lower than a c-section. I have done some googling on the subject and have found this to be the case. For example: Vaginal Birth vs. C-Section: Pros & Cons 
As a result, I have been very surprised at the prevalence of elective c-sections amongst my friends and in my community. I know no one my age in my acquaintance who has had a vaginal birth. Everyone I have spoken to about this has chosen to voluntarily have a c-section for reasons of convenience ("my husband had work") or fear ("I'm squeamish and scared of labour"). 
I asked my obgyn about this and he seemed relatively nonchalant, that the recovery time wasn't that bad compared to an episiotomy and that no matter what there are risks. 
It is very clear that the mindset now has shifted significantly compared to what it was 30 years ago when my mom did her studies. Due to the conflicting information available, I'm really not sure which is preferable anymore.
I understand c-sections are more convenient, but are they considered medically preferable, or even on-par with a vaginal birth? Perhaps my understanding of the medical side of things (or what my mom taught me) is out of date or old fashioned.

I'm only referring to low-risk pregnancies where the mother chooses an elective c-section beforehand even though she could give birth vaginally. Of course, emergency c-sections or scheduled c-sections (due to medical issues during pregnancy/birth) are a completely different case here.

A:

If we are assuming that there is no valid reason1 for a c-section, a c-section is obsolete per definition. Any operation has risks and strains the body: The anesthesia, the cutting of the body to name the two obvious points. If an operation is not indicated, it shouldn’t be performed. So, if c-section are not medically indicated, they shouldn’t be performed.
If there was a valid reason for the c-section, the answer is obvious: Do get a c-section.

Some references:

Based on the available data, and using internationally accepted methods to assess the evidence with the most appropriate analytical techniques, WHO concludes: Caesarean sections are effective in saving maternal and infant lives, but only when they are required for medically indicated reasons.
Emphasis Mine, Taken from WHO Statement on Caesarean Section Rates

A more elaborate source:

Experts who believe c-sections should only be performed for medical reasons point to the risks. These include infection, dangerous bleeding, blood transfusions, and blood clots. Babies born by c-section have more breathing problems right after birth. Women who have c-sections stay at the hospital for longer than women who have vaginal births. Plus, recovery from this surgery takes longer and is often more painful than that after a vaginal birth. C-sections also increase the risk of problems in future pregnancies. Women who have had c-sections have a higher risk of uterine rupture. If the uterus ruptures, the life of the baby and mother is in danger. [...]
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and American College of Obstetricians (ACOG) agree that a doctor's decision to perform a c-section at the request of a patient should be made on a case-by-case basis and be consistent with ethical principles. ACOG states that "if the physician believes that (cesarean) delivery promotes the overall health and welfare of the woman and her fetus more than vaginal birth, he or she is ethically justified in performing" a c-section. Both organizations also say that c-section should never be scheduled before a pregnancy is 39 weeks, or the lungs are mature, unless there is medical need.

If you are even more interested, this is a great source as well.

1: These include psychological factors. If a to-be mother is as an example afraid of natural delivery, this can be considered a valid reason after evaluation. 

