Q:

Why not "increase temperature indoors to 30 Celsius or more + hydration" as a measure to slow down the new coronavirus spread?

Is the new strain of corona virus susceptible to heat? Skimming the map supplies the idea that it is, and many unpublished research suggest that heat might slow down the virus.  
If so why raising temperature indoors to say around 30 C or more is not among the WHO recommendations to cut down possible transmission of this virus indoors? 
For instance in Iraq people set their AC up to 30 C at winter, even though the winter season in Iraq is not that cold. I heard that people in NY and other places set their indoor temperature to around 21 C while they are living in a rather harsh winter season, 21 C seems to be a very nice temperature level for the virus to thrive on surfaces indoors, or even to be transmitted through air indoors, and thereby easing its transmission. 
To re-iterate my question: 

Why the WHO and other CDC services are not advocating setting temperature indoors to 30 C or higher coupled with increasing hydration and frequent drinking of water and liquids to keep the throat moist, at least in cold places that are hit hard by the virus?

A:

When you say slow down the rate of transmission indoors, most countries that I know of with this condition are in lock-down or practicising social distancing to reduce the risk of spread.  So, I presume that you must mean the spread of disease from an infected person to another in the same household.
We have some data to suggest that virus viability is reduced with heat.  I haven't seen exact data for 30 deg C for SARS-CoV-2 but MERS-CoV viability drops from 48 hours to 5-24 hours.  But if you're in the house with an infected person, that person will keep generating virus so it doesn't matter whether it's 5 hours or 48 hours on a surface if the surface keeps being re-contaminated.
Now, even if you could maintain the internal temperature of a room at 30 deg C in a cold or temperate climate ( I doubt my house can reach that temperature in winter ), I presume that you're talking about using heat pumps as they are generally considered the most cost effective way of heating.  Ignoring the fact to that air to surface heat transmission is very ineffective, you're going to be stirring up air currents with either the forced air flow or temperature gradients being established inside the house, and this is likely to distribute virus particles more widely.
In short this doesn't seem to be practical, and really needs testing to see if it makes the situation worse or better.

