Q:

I have natural immunity to Hepatitis B. Do I pose risk to others?

Some time ago I was rejected as donor and received following rejection letter:

Just wanted to inform you that there was a positive infectious disease
  result for Hepatitis B. Unfortunately, we cannot take donors into the
  program with a positive Hepatitis B test result due to the inventory
  possibly being compromised.

And the following test results were attached to the rejection letter:

Hepatitis Bc IgM Ab:                 NON-REACTIVE (Anti-HBc IgM)
Hepatitis Bs Ag:                     NON-REACTIVE (HBsAg)
Hepatitis Bc Ab:                     REACTIVE (HBcAb)

Obviously, I don't want to be a donor, if I pose risk to someone else. So I am fine with their judgment, if it is in best interest of others.
However, now I am curious, especially after I found this CDC website and I am trying to understand under which category I fall under.
My understanding is that I fall under "Immune due to natural infection" and that it is actually impossible for me to infect others via sexual intercourse or if someone else uses my blood?

A:

The Hepatitis B core antibody test is positive for IgG but negative for IgM indicating that you had the hepatitis B infection a while ago. The negative hepatitis B surface antigen test means that they are not detecting the hepatitis B in your blood when testing for the virus surface antigen.  This means you've successfully cleared the infection to a very low level.  You don't mention the hepatitis B surface antibody levels which are usually used to determine if you're now immune eg. after a series of hepatitis B vaccinations.
This doesn't mean you don't have the virus in your system.  Immunosuppressants such as methotrexate and TNF inhibitors could still potentially reactivate the hepatitis B infection.  So, you'd want to measure the HBV DNA viral load and then track that serially to see if such treatment causes a reactivation.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24805974 

