Q:

What is "retrosternal oppression" and "oppression biosynthesis"?

In my reading of the scientific and medical literature, I have come across the term “retrosternal oppression”.
Source: Jerjes-Sánchez, C. “Cardiology in the ER: A Practical Guide”, Springer Nature Switzerland (2019), p. 4, Table 1.2. Characteristic of Chest Pain Caused by Pneumothorax:

<50%: ipsilateral chest pain bound to respiration, initially sharp and pleuritic, but may become dull or achy over time.
>50% retrosternal oppression, in hypertensive modality a circulatory collapse is a clinical presentation. Sudden dyspnea is the main symptom in both conditions

I know what “retrosternal” means, but I’ve never heard of it when paired with “oppression”. I found one definition of “oppression” in any medical or clinical context; to refer to acts of coercion and/or subjugation on matters related to health.
I don’t think that this is what I’m looking for.
While I was hunting for a definition, I came across a related term: “oppression biosynthesis”.
I’m a bit embarrassed to admit that I’ve never heard of this term either.
My questions are:

What is “retrosternal oppression” in clinical medicine?
What is “oppression biosynthesis” in biochemistry?

A:

It is likely that the first language of the authors of Cardiology in the ER: A Practical Guide is not English. Just a few lines above the table you reference is the following sentence:

Physicians in charge must be in warning about that the severity of symptoms and the outcome are not related in some cases of ACS.

Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like the copy editors at Springer were very thorough. Thus, "retrosternal oppression" is likely a mis-translation of "oppressive retrosternal pain." I'm not sure I've ever come across a patient who describes their chest pain as "oppressive," but I have heard someone describe it "like an elephant is standing on my chest."
Indeed, "oppressive" is sometimes used to describe the pain of pericarditis. From  Khandaker et al 2010 (PMCID 2878263):

Dull, oppressive pain can also occur in pericarditis, making it difficult to distinguish from myocardial ischemia.

As for, "oppression biosynthesis," that sounds like another mis-translation (or nonsense). If you'd like us to refute that, please provide a link as suggested by Carey in the comments.

