Q:

Simulate hypoxic training by breath holding/regulation

Is it possible to physically simulate hypoxic training by doing periodic breath holds or breath regulation during aerobic activity? 
Ideally, it ought to be done in a hypobaric/hypoxic chamber whilst strapped to some monitors. But short of that, I can think of two ways - 

While running, every few minutes, I can try to hold my breath for a couple of steps initially and gradually increase it to 8-10 steps 
if I normally run say 6 steps per inhalation+exhalation  cycle and I try to increase it to 7 and further on. 

What I would like to understand is 

if it will work?
the risks involved, and how to mitigate them (e.g. a pulse oximeter on a finger to monitor?)

I considered posting this question on the physical fitness SE, but did it here instead considering that I would prefer an answer by someone trained in the medical sciences. 
In general, based on past work (ref: 1, 2, 3, and 4) it seems that intermittent hypoxic training is indeed beneficial. But most "professional" work (both researchers and athletes) in the area uses hypoxic chambers - which is not practical for the average internet user.  
What is less clear is if breath control is an adequate method of simulating hypoxic training. The only reliable references (the runnbetternow website and an NIH publication by a yoga center) I could find aren't exactly by medical professionals. FWIW, these references are in favor of the method. The question is if medical practitioners agree. 
The end goal here is to prepare for mountain activities. As it is not practical to move one's permanent base to a mountain top, one would like to be able to somehow simulate high altitude training whilst still living at sea level. Of course, this will be in addition to (not in lieu of) actually periodically training at altitude. 

A:

The approach you describe most likely will not work, and could be detrimental to your training.
The main benefit of training at altitude is that the body will adapt to the lower concentration of oxygen by stimulating the production of erythropoietin which in turn causes the body to produce more red blood cells.
What you are describing is a very limited version of intermittent hypoxic training (IHT). In subelite athletes, this has been shown to have some effect, however it was 60 minutes of training using a protocol of 3-5 minutes of hypoxia followed by the same amount of time of normoxia (normal breathing). (Also cited here.)

In a study of male subelite competitive cyclists and triathletes, athletes were exposed to intermittent hypoxia (artificial brief intermittent LHTL) for 15 days over 3 weeks for 60 min per day with either 3 or 5 min periods of hypoxia followed by the same duration in normoxia. Cycling performance improved during incremental step exercise, including increases of 4.7% ± 3.1% in peak aerobic power, 4.4% ± 3.0% in lactate profile power, and 6.5% ± 5.3% in heart rate profile power compared to control measured 3 days post-intervention.35 Fourteen days after treatment, differences between the hypoxia groups were unclear, suggesting that intermittent hypoxia training should be timed for competitive events to take place within a few days following treatment. In a similar study, performance did not improve among elite athletes,36 suggesting that artificial brief intermittent LHTL should be considered mainly by subelite athletes.

The most common method of attempting to achieve this is a training mask, which restricts air flow. Most studies (like this one) reject the claim that it helps by actually simulating altitude, but they do note that it helps train the respiratory muscles and may help improve lung usage.
The short period that you describe really won't have enough of an impact on the body to stimulate altitude related changes in blood and plasma.

