Q:

Is drinking water during or after a meal better?

Is it better to drink water during or after a meal?
Clearly, there are different opinions about this topic. 
In this Mayo Clinic article, it is mentioned that drinking water immediately after or during a meal should not make much difference, and in fact doing so actually aids digestion in general.
On the other side, this link says exactly the opposite:

Remember not to drink too soon before or after a meal as the water will dilute the digestive juices.  Drink water an hour after the meal to allow the body to absorb the nutrients.

Which approach is better for health?

A:

Remember not to drink too soon before or after a meal as the water will dilute the digestive juices

While that claim might sound reasonable at first, I doubt this has any effect you need to consider for your health.  There's several reasons for this:

The stomach normally contains about 20 to 100 milliliters of stomach acid at a pH of around 2 to 3. To change pH by one point, you need to dilute it 1:10. If the stomach contains 50 milliliters at a pH of 2, for example, half a litre is needed to get it up to a pH of 3.
The effect definitely isn't negligible, but it's less than you might think because stomach acid is a very strong acid. An acid with a pH of 3 or even 4 is still a strong acid, and unlikely to cause problems - the medical condition of achlorhydria is only diagnosed when the stomach acid pH is greater than 5 in men or 6.8 in women.

The stomach is capable of regulating pH if needed -  for example, in a study on preoperative patients, one group was allowed to drink water and one wasn't. The mean water intake was 400 milliliters for the group that was allowed to. The stomach acid in the two groups didn't differ significantly in either volume (which was just 20 milliliters) or acidity.

Drink water an hour after the meal to allow the body to absorb the nutrients.

Food stays in the stomach for 2 to 4 hours, so the recommendation to wait one hour is weird. What's more, food itself contains water and thus does lower the acidity of the stomach - that's normal. Since it can be regulated (see above) it's very doubtful that a bit of water on top is going to screw things up

What do these sources think will happen with these nutrients? After the hours in the stomach, there's an additional 3 hours in the small intestine and 30 to 40 hours in the colon for the food. The colon and the stomach do have different roles in digestion, but in general, the digestive tract is pretty good at extracting nutrients from food

As a doctor writes for the Mayo Clinic (yes, I know that link is in your question):

There's no concern that water will dilute the digestive juices or interfere with digestion.

Drink water when you want to drink water. Also, don't trust sites that tell you to drink water to "activate your internal organs" in the morning  ;-)

