Q:

Does Dextromethorphan actually suppress coughing?

I had a pretty annoying dry cough a while ago following a cold. In the list of incredients for a cough syrup that I used, it said:

Each 5 mL or 1 teaspoonful (tsp.) contains:

DM | Cough Suppressant: Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide (15 mg): Controls dry cough.
E | Expectorant: Guaifenesin (200 mg): Relieves chest congestion.
Analgesic: Menthol (15 mg): Relieves sore throat pain.

Okay, seems straightforward enough.
But then I came across this reddit thread talking about an article titled "There is no evidence that cough medicine works" (posted in 2014).
Note that part of the article says:

It's important to understand that these studies have not proven that cough medicines don’t work. Rather, they’ve just found no proof that they do. It’s always possible that further studies could show that they help.

The comments in the reddit thread didn't seem to have any clear consensus about the validity of the article's claims, so I thought I'd ask here. I was wondering specifically about the Dextromethorphan. Is there any evidence that DM suppresses coughing?

A:

The bulk of the evidence says dextromethorphan (DM) is no better than placebo.
(2013) Do Cough Remedies Work?

Studies involving use of dextromethorphan in children have reported no
  clinically significant difference in symptoms of cough compared with
  placebo.[1] This lack of effect is not affected by dose, because
  studies of higher doses of dextromethorphan have also reported no
  difference in symptoms.[2] In adult patients with upper respiratory
  infection, there is no added benefit of using dextromethorphan or
  codeine.[3,4]

1. (2006) Child assessment of dextromethorphan, diphenhydramine, and placebo for nocturnal cough due to upper respiratory infection. https://www.medscape.com/medline/abstract/16928841
2. (2004) Dose-response relationship with increasing doses of dextromethorphan for children with cough. https://www.medscape.com/medline/abstract/15531013
3. (2000) Antitussive efficacy of dextromethorphan in cough associated with acute upper respiratory tract infection. https://www.medscape.com/medline/abstract/11045895

There is one study that found DM to be more effective than codeine, but it was very small (16 patients) and quite old (1983). It is not compelling.

