Q:

Is Glucose-6-phosphatase absent in all the 3 types of muscular tissues?

While going through gluconeogenesis I came to know about Glucose-6-phosphatase. In my book it's stated that

Glucose-6-phosphatase is mostly present in liver and kidney and is absent in muscles, brain and adipose tissue.

I want to be specific that whether it is true for all muscles or only 1 type of muscle.

A:

In humans, glucose-6-phosphatase is actually a multiunit enzyme system (Hutton and O'Brien 2009. PMCID 2785553). There are at least 3 isoforms.
G6PC
The first isoform, encoded by the G6PC gene, is predominantly expressed in liver and kidney as is indicated in your textbook (Hutton and O'Brien 2009. PMCID 2785553).
The most well studied function of glucose-6-phosphatase is in gluconeogenic tissues where it catalyzes the removal of phosphate to prepare the glucose molecule for transport outside of the cell.

Adapted from this image and this image.
Although most gluconeogenesis occurs in the liver, some occurs in the kidneys (Clar et al 2014 PMCID 5678048).
Patients with biallelic pathogenic variants of G6PC have glycogen storage disease 1a which is characterized by severe hypoglycemia and hepatomegaly caused by the accumulation of glycogen.
G6PC3
The third isoform, encoded by the G6PC3 gene, is the more broadly expressed. Some authors call it "the ubiquitously expressed glucose-6-phosphatase" (Martin et al 2002. PMID 12370122). The function of this isoform is more poorly understood. Hutton and O'Brien note that  some authors have theorized that

the presence of G6PC3 in muscle may explain the improvement in endogenous glucose production and the decrease in susceptibility to hypoglycemia in patients with GSD type 1a after puberty.

The Human Protein Atlas shows that G6PC3 is expressed in cardiac, skeletal and smooth muscle.

I have been unable to find any expression datasets which compare fast and slow twitch skeletal muscle.
Patients with biallelic pathogenic variants of G6PC3 have Dursun syndrome which is characterized by neutropenia and cardiac abnormalities which demonstrates the effect outside of the liver and kidney.
Conclusions
Thus, your textbook is correct that the G6PC gene is largely expressed in the liver and kidney where is is involved in gluconeogenesis. However, other isoforms of glucose-6-phosphatase are expressed outside the kidney and liver, including in muscles.
The function of the second isoform, encoded by the G6PC2 gene is more controversial, so I will leave it to the reader to explore more (Hutton and O'Brien 2009. PMCID 2785553).

