Q:

Looking for studies about how blood pressure changes are perceived by our brain

More specifically, I'm looking for how the brain perceives its own local blood pressure changes if it does and what are the mechanisms/reactions involved in this process if any are known to date.
I'm looking for research articles, not general information.
EDIT:
To be even more specific: I'm looking for how the physical change of pressure in a vessel is converted into a neurological signal. What mechanisms, substances, organelles are locally involved. Is the blood pressure measured actively in certain zones of the brain? Is the mechanism different in different zones of the brain/body. Knowing the nature of the perception mechanism, what substances or conditions could lead into a wrong measurement of the blood pressure by our body. Are there any known problems about the mechanism that measures the blood pressure not working properly and what are the consequences.
I'm more interested in brain tissue local responses than in for example the relation between hypertension and cognition, etc.

A:

This study published in 2014 provides an excellent review of the physiological mechanisms of cerebral blood flow regulation (open access):
Willie CK et al. Integrative regulation of human brain blood flow. J Physiol. 2014 Mar 1;592(5):841-59. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.268953.
Their list of references includes a very exhaustive list of studies conducted on this topic.
This study provides a figure which actually gives a good overview of the mechanisms of CBF regulation:

Here a small extract of the legend:
First, they give a small description of the brain vasculature

The central figure depicts the cerebrovasculature, comprised of two
  pairs of large arteries that branch from the sublavian arteries, i.e.
  the internal carotid arteries (ICAs) that carry ∼70% of total cerebral
  blood flow (CBF) and the vertebral arteries (VAs) that distribute ∼30%
  of total CBF to the brainstem, cerebellum and occipital cortex. The
  internal carotid arteries and vertebral arteriess anastomose to form
  the circle of Willis before branching out into the main intracerebral
  arteries that ramify extensively en route to the brain surface. At the
  surface, the vessels form a dense network of highly vasoactive
  arterioles within the pia mater before they penetrate into the cortex
  (inlay II).

Then they explain the role of intracranial pressure in the regulation of CBF

The driving pressure in this system is the cerebral perfusion pressure
  (CPP) that is determined by the difference between mean arterial
  pressure (MAP) and intracranial pressure (ICP), in conditions where
  central venous pressure (CVP) is lower than ICP. In these conditions,
  MAP approximates CPP. As a result of the enclosed nature of the skull,
  ICP acts as a Starling resistor for cerebral venous outflow, a
  mechanism that is likely to be of greater importance with marked
  elevations in ICP or CVP, or both.

Cerebral arteries are the main actors in maintaining brain perfusion and react to changes in blood gases and to changes in perfusion pressure. Similarly, the pial vessels respond to changes in CPP, arterial partial pressures of O2 and CO2. Inlay III of their figure provides a good overview of the plial changes in response to blood gas alterations.

