Q:

Healthy way to become numb

What can I do to enter a numb state of being so that I don't feel constantly dragged down, fatigue, stress, and all the other downs people experience? For years I've tried exercising, eating healthy, etc. It works to some degree. I get plenty of sleep. I believe the issue is mental. For example, this morning I have a truck load of science experiments to build, but as I sat down to start building them I was swamped with horrible feelings, making it feel like I was carrying a mountain on my shoulders. At least one issue is that I get stressed due to fear of failure. I would much rather spend my entire day thinking. To leave my inner world of thought and actually do physical stuff feels like climbing a tall mountain. It's painful. 
Is there anything I can do to numb such sensations? Sometimes I want to be a robot who feels no pain. Perhaps coffee is the answer. Or meditation. Or electric shock therapy lol. Or hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Or joggers high. Or some kind of psychological therapy or hypnosis.
The reason I ask about becoming numb is that twice when life became incredibly horrible I suddenly had the most wonderful blissful sensation of numbness sweep over me. There are no words to describe how wonderful this numbness felt. It didn't last long, about 10 minutes, but during those 10 minutes I could do anything without pain /stress / sadness / fatigue / fear / feeling down. It would be great and more productive to be able to feel like that during my work hours. Thank you so very much for any help!

A:

These could be symptoms of different medical problems, depression, anxiety, or other issues.  In lieu of personal advice or a discussion of treatments, I advise seeing your primary care provider as a starting point for evaluation and management; they can guide you best.
In addition to a medical evaluation, mindfulness medication and deep breathing are techniques commonly used in behavioral health for stress, anxiety, and other issues. They use principles of quieting the external stimuli and internal stimuli and being present in the moment, still, at peace. 
However: this would be in addition to, not instead of, seeing a medical professional to evaluate potential causes of your multiple symptoms.

