Q:

Risks of having an unwanted child - worrying as a man

As a man that had sex with a woman, what are the risks of having an unwanted baby if:

the vaginal sex was unprotected at some point, but without ejaculating inside
she was on birth control pills (at least that's what she said)
both of us had drank alcohol before that
she has let me know her period came 4-5 days later
also 1 month later, she assured me that she is on period again, so she's NOT pregnant (meanwhile I had called her and insisted that she would take a test, she was almost amused by my worry)
she's 43 (I'm 28)
she's married, also has a child, which makes her more unlikely to want to get pregnant with me; she assured me that she doesn't want to and she would rather have an abortion, but it's not the case because she's experienced enough to know she is not pregnant

Now, 5 months passed since the sexual contact, I didn't keep in touch with her, but in the recent days I started getting worried again about it.
I may sound a little bit paranoid, but I realize that many factors make such a pregnancy almost impossible. It would only be a risk if she would be crazy enough to hide it from me or if she wouldn't really know she is pregnant.
I don't really want to get in contact with her again, it's just this worry... and I'm not sure if it would really disappear if she would re-assure me again everything's alright. It's just out of my control.
But, also, from a moral point of view, I guess I can consider that I "did my duty" about it: I asked, I insisted she'd take a test (although she didn't) etc.
I'm trying to be as objective and realistic as possible about this. So, please, no superficial answers :)
Thank you!

A:

She had two periods afterwards so she is not pregnant. 
Who are you to demand that she take a test? You pretty much called her a liar when you did that. If you can't or won't accept her at her word about being on birth control, not being pregnant, etc, then I recommend you quit sleeping with women you have such a low opinion of.

