Q:

Can one have high and low blood pressure at the same time?

I understand that the heart is a pump. The systolic (SYS) one is when it pumps, the diastolic (DIA) one is when it fills with blood again.
Now I think the following holds:

SYS of 140 mmHg or more => high blood pressure
DIA of 90 mmHg or more => high blood pressure
SYS of 90 mmHg or lower => low blood pressure
DIA of 60 mmHg or lower => low blood pressure

But this simple rule-set would mean that you could have high and low blood pressure at the same time (I'm not sure if it works from the physics, but it does from the mathematics). For example:
SYS of 140 mmHg and DIA of 60 mmHg

Now I wonder: Is the difference SYS-DIA of significance? What would it mean to have
SYS of 100 and DIA of 80

or
SYS of 135 and DIA of 65

A:

Unusual differences between systolic and diastolic pressure may speak for an underlying condition and may be a risk factor for further complications, but can be sometimes normal, for example, in some athletes.
Systolic pressure >140 and diastolic pressure <90 is called isolated systolic hypertension, which can result from peripheral artery disease, heart valve problems, hyperthyroidism, diabetes, etc. (The American Journal of Medicine).
Diastolic pressure >90 and systolic pressure <140 is called isolated diastolic hypertension, which usually results from the hardening of aorta in elderly (Hypertension). 
Diastolic pressure <60 and systolic pressure >100 is called isolated diastolic hypotension, which is usually associated with artery hardening in elderly (Hypertension).
Normal diastolic and low systolic pressure is called isolated systolic hypotension, which could result from left heart ventricle failure (Hemodynamics and Cardiology).
Blood pressure changes after exercise:
In healthy individuals, shortly after exercise, both systolic and diastolic pressure tend to drop by about the same extent, as described in the study Post-exercise changes in blood pressure, heart rate and rate pressure product at different exercise intensities in normotensive humans (SciELO):

Most studies dealing with post-exercise blood pressure responses have
  demonstrated that exercise reduces blood pressure during the recovery
  period. Nevertheless, the magnitude and the time course of blood
  pressure changes after exercise are inconsistent.

 
Picture: Systolic, mean, and diastolic blood pressures at baseline and after exercise (source: SciELO, Creative Commons License)
Pulse Pressure (NCBI Bookshelf)
Pulse pressure is the difference between systolic and diastolic pressure and is normally about 40 mm Hg (120 - 80 = 40).
Pulse pressure is considered low (narrow), when it is <25% of systolic pressure (for example, 110 - 90 = 20). It can occur in impaired heart muscle function after myocardial infarction or in aortic valve stenosis, for example.
Pulse pressure is considered high (wide), when it is >100 mm Hg (for example, 185 - 80 = 105). It can occur in hardening of the arteries or aorta (mainly in elderly) or in aortic valve insufficiency, for example. Pulse pressure can be also increased in severe blood loss, anemia and hyperthyroidism and, not necessary as a sign of a disease, in some well trained athletes.

