Q:

How often and in what manner can one use warm water with salt for oral health?

I have heard about the benefits of swishing with warm salt water. I have hard that it promotes oral health and keeps many oral diseases at bay. 
I read a lot about it on the web but all the posts are different from one another in one or the other way. I'm confused after reading them.
So I was wondering if someone could elaborate on it with authenticity. 
Here is the question I have : 
How will it benefit oral health?
Link: https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-benefits-of-rinsing-my-gums-with-salt-water

A:

Swishing with warm salt water may not help to prevent mouth disease in otherwise health individuals.

Salt water rinse can be used as adjunct to routine mechanical plaque
  control for prevention of oral diseases. 
The study participants would have experienced some improvement not
  specifically associated with the therapeutic properties of the test
  agent, but rather related to behavioral change known as Hawthorne
  effect. (jisppd.com)

Swishing with warm salt water may help to prevent or cure mouth wounds in some conditions:
1) After tooth extraction

The instruction to use warm saline mouth rinse is beneficial in the
  prevention of alveolar osteitis after dental extractions. There is no
  significant difference in the efficacy of the twice-daily warm saline
  mouth rinse regimen compared to the six times daily regimen. (Evidence-Based Dental Practice, 2015)

2) After surgery in the mouth, swishing warm salt water may help prevent infections:

Chlorhexidine, warm salt water and warm tap water averagely produced
  the same number of colony forming units of bacteria, which shows that
  the three different mouth washes are equally effective as
  post-operative mouth rinses after oral surgery. (J Maxillofac Oral Surg., 2015)

3) After chemotherapy

Rinsing with a mixture of saltwater and 3% hydrogen peroxide. (The
  mixture should have 2 or 3 times the amount of saltwater than hydrogen
  peroxide.) To make the saltwater mixture, put 1/4 teaspoon of salt in
  1 cup of water. This helps clean wounds in the mouth. (PDQ Cancer
  Information Summaries, 2019)

