Q:

Does the same amount of calories have different result on people

I have always wondered how this come about.
At work we hade a conference about this and some people say that some people get over weight because it´s genetics, even if they eat the same amount of calories as any other, they grow bigger right, that is if the intake is the same as others their fet cells would miraculously grow larger!! Most people leaned to the genetics explanation and I felt it was out of respect more than trough Empirical evidence. 
Does the same amount of calories have different result on people?

A:

There are various processes that influence weight gain based on calorie intake. It is in general clear that a severe reduction in calories (well below your body's basal needs) reduces weight in the longer term. I'm not sure any other scenario has consequences that are the same for all people.
An important factor is actual intake. Based on your genetics, diseases and your gut biome, you may not take up calories from the same foods as efficiently as someone else. Extremer examples are people with celiac's, crohn's or ulcerative colitis. Though many milder afflictions will also influence weight gain. Note that people with the above diseases can still be obese due to other factors. You can effectively be in a state of malnutrition and obese (sugar is one of the easiest things to take up, essential vitamins are less easy).
Another important factor is hormones and steroids. Imbalances in hormones and steroids can easily distort how you process sugar and fat, leading to a different reaction. Common example is too little or too many thyroid hormone. Too little causes weight gain (both due to fat and due to water swelling) and lethargy (exercising just got harder).
On top of that, you would also need to look at what is actually gained in weight. You could gain fat, water or muscle. All of these are influenced to some extent by the factors above. And also by what you eat exactly and what you do otherwise.
Note that most of these factors are influenced by both genetics and environment.

