Q:

If you get once vaccinated against tetanus, will you get protected eternally?

I heard a claim that if one has got a tetanus vaccine in the past, the history of medicine does not know any case where vaccinated person has got a tetanus. Is that true and is there any publication for this claim?

A:

One vaccination alone will not protect you for life, but as for the childhood vaccination programs:
The recommendations depend on your country.
In the US, adults need 1 booster shot of the Td vaccine (a type of vaccine which protects preteens, teens, and adults from tetanus and diphtheria) every 10 years as part of their routine vaccine schedule (for more on that, see the Tetanus (Lockjaw) page from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services). If you get a deep cut or a burn, you may need the booster earlier — especially if the cut or burn is dirty.

If you missed the Tdap booster as a teen, you’ll need to get a Tdap booster instead to make sure you have protection from whooping cough.

If you are in the UK, a total of 5 doses of tetanus vaccine are recommended for life (see the NHS Tetanus page for more).

The tetanus vaccine is given as part of the NHS childhood vaccination programme.
The full course of vaccination includes 5 injections, usually given on the following schedule:

the first 3 doses are given as part of the 6-in-1 vaccine at age 8, 12 and 16 weeks
a booster dose is given as part of the 4-in-1 pre-school booster at age 3 years and 4 months
a final dose is given as part of the 3-in-1 teenage booster at age 14

This course of 5 injections should provide long-lasting protection against tetanus. However, if you or your child has a deep or dirty wound, it's best to get medical advice.
If you're not sure whether you've had the full vaccination course, contact your GP surgery for advice. It's possible to fully vaccinate older children and adults who were not vaccinated when they were younger.

The same page also states that if you're planning to travel abroad and have not been fully vaccinated against tetanus, or you're going to an area with limited medical facilities and your last vaccine dose was more than 10 years ago, contact your GP surgery for advice.

You'll be offered the 3-in-1 teenage booster. This injection, which also protects against diphtheria and polio, is usually free on the NHS.

