Q:

How to get rid of erectile dysfunction?

Erection problems happen mostly with men.  What causes it and what is happening in the body?

A:

Before going directly into the topic, firstly, it is necessary to comprehend the mechanism of erection, because small fault due to different factors in the mechanism gives rise to its dysfunction. 
An erection is a complex process. It involves the central nervous system, the peripheral nervous system, psychological and psychological factors, local factors with the erection bodies or the penis itself, as well as hormonal and vascular components.
When stimuli relating to sex are generated from different sources like touch, smell, visual,etc,they travel from the brain to the nerve centers at the base of the spine, where primary nerve fibers connect to the penis and regulate blood flow during erections and afterward. 
Sexual stimulation causes the release of chemicals from the nerve endings in the penis that trigger a series of events that ultimately cause muscle relaxation in the erection bodies of the penis. The smooth muscle in the erection bodies controls the flow of blood into the penis. When the smooth muscle relaxes, the blood flow dramatically increases, and the erection bodies become full and rigid, resulting in an erection. Venous drainage channels are compressed and close off as the erection bodies enlarge.
So disruption in the any steps of the mechanism is responsible for erection dysfunction.
The causes of erection dysfunction can be broadly classified as:
1.Psychological (mental) factors
2.Physical factors

Psychological factors

Depression, anxiety or other mental health conditions
Stress
Relationship problems due to stress, poor communication or other concerns
feeling nervous about or self-conscious about sex

Physical factors

Heart disease
Clogged blood vessels (atherosclerosis)
High cholesterol
High blood pressure
Diabetes
Obesity
Metabolic syndrome — a condition involving increased blood pressure, high insulin levels, body fat around the waist and high cholesterol
Parkinson's disease
Multiple sclerosis
Peyronie's disease — development of scar tissue inside the penis
Certain prescription medications
Tobacco use
Alcoholism and other forms of substance abuse
Sleep disorders
Treatments for prostate cancer or enlarged prostate
Surgeries or injuries that affect the pelvic area or spinal cord

Hormonal factors

Low level of testosterone
High level of prolactin

References

http://www.emedicinehealth.com/causes_of_erectile_dysfunction/article_em.htm
http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/5702.php
http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/erectile-dysfunction/basics/causes/con-20034244
https://www.urologicalcare.com/erectile-dysfunction/ed-common-causes/
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/healthyliving/erectile-dysfunction

