Q:

Is there any way to overcome Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder without using medicine?

I have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and want to be a web programmer. It's really annoying when you have an error and can't see where it is or can't focus. 
I tried seeing a psychologist, but it didn't help that much.
What I want:

I want to overcome it myself 
I want to get rid of it totally

I am aware that it will take time without professional help, but I don't know how to. 

A:

In regards to your psychologist, remember that it often takes time before you find one that suits you. Perhaps this one simply isn't suitable?
Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) is an effective non-drug treatment for ADHD. Ask your psychologist about it. 
ADHD is postulated to relate to a "deficiency" of two chemicals within a particular region of the brain called the prefrontal cortex. Stimulant medications such as Ritalin boost the levels of these chemicals to within a "normal range". This is why medication is so effective. Perhaps you would consider medication?
I hate to sound harsh: ADHD is a neurodevelopment disorder. As such, ADHD cannot be "fixed", only managed.
References

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16961428, Mechanism of action of agents used in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

A:

As aduckinthewinter mentioned, ADD/ADHD is not something that can be fixed - just managed. I wouldn't worry at all about trying to "fix" your ADD/ADHD, just understand it and work with it.
Some experience hyperfocus if you do, learn to tap into it.
Also make sure that you're getting proper sleep and nutrition. You might try an elimination diet to see if you have foods that trigger your inability to focus (you know, like sugar and caffeine).
Pay attention to your body - is there a time during the day that you have better focus? Morning? Night? Midday? Right after a nap? Does music help you focus? Distract you? Software development is actually a creative discipline - and while you do need to be able to focus when you're laying down code, there are a lot of times when you need creativity - even more so in the web sphere.
My personal philosophy is that our society (especially in America) is entirely too bent on making everyone "average". We are intolerant of behaviors and attitudes that stand out - unless of course they're at the head of a large organization or are really popular/entertaining. I think that causes a lot of problems with the mental health of a lot of people - in your case it seems like you feel broke and need fixing. In your words:

I want to get rid of it totally

Why not embrace who you are? Learn what your strengths are and how to use them to your advantage. Learn what your weaknesses are and how trick them into working for you. Like maybe spending a ton of time answering questions on the StackExchange network ;)

