Q:

Can consumption of large quantity of eggs (with yolks) be harmful for health?

I have seen people throwing egg yolk while eating egg.
Bodybuilders who take large quantities of egg (50 per day) if they eat yolk is there a health complication compared to eating only egg white.

A:

In short:

Egg yolks can make you fat only if they contribute to excessive calorie intake.
Consumption of up to 1 whole egg/day does not increase the risk of heart disease, but may increase the risk of diabetes; the risk of both diseases increases with the egg quantity.
Egg whites are not typically associated with increased risk of disease. 
The idea behind throwing egg yolks away is to get the "good" (protein) from the egg white and to avoid the "bad" (fat, cholesterol and calories) from the yolk. But, egg yolk also contains protein, the fat in it is mostly unsaturated and the cholesterol from it does not raise blood cholesterol in most people. It is true that most of egg calories come from the yolk: the whole 50 g egg has 72 Calories and 55 Calories come from yolk.

It is estimated that in ~2/3 of population, high dietary cholesterol intake does not result in increased blood cholesterol levels, but it can in the other 1/3, who are "cholesterol hyper-responders;" this does not increase the LDL/HDL ratio (which is a risk factor for atherosclerosis) Nutrients, 2015).
According to 2 systematic reviews of studies (AJCN, 2013 ; Nutrients, 2015), consumption of up to 1 egg per day is not associated with increased risk of heart disease and stroke but may be associated with an increased risk of diabetes type 2 - this association was manly reported from studies in Americans, who tend to be more obese and consume more saturated fats and cholesterol than people in other countries (British Journal of Nutrition, 2016).
In 2 recent systematic reviews (Advanced Nutrition, 2019 ; European Journal of Nutrition, 2014), high egg consumption (>1 egg/meal) was associated with an increased risk of some gastrointestinal cancers. 

