Q:

Lymph node swelling

I'm sure that most of us had, at some point in their life, swollen lymph nodes (be it because of a flu or some other kind of not-too-serious illness) and there is generally no reason to panic if one finds a swollen lymph node on their body. Now, even if the swelling is often associated with something harmless in certain cases it can be dangerous and needs further checking by doctors. If you  google when you should see your doctor, one often finds lists like these.

if your swollen lymph nodes:

Have appeared for no apparent reason 
Continue to enlarge or have been present for two to four weeks
Feel hard or rubbery, or don't move when you push on them
Are accompanied by persistent fever, night sweats or unexplained    weight loss

(Source)

The first and last point seem quite intuitive to me, or at least, I as a non-medic can check that. But the two middle points are somewhat confusing to me. 
For example, have been present for two to four weeks, so does this mean, that if it isn't something serious, they should disappear in two to four weeks, and if it is something serious than they wouldn't disappear at all? Or would it take them longer than that to disappear and therefore the doctor couldn't determine what the problem is? The third point is something that seems completely indefinable for a non-medic. I'm mean, what exactly is hard/rubbery (any reference, like f.e. a rock, or more like a eraser). The same goes for the comment don't move when you push on them. What exactly should I expect when I push them? How far should I be able to push them? Does pushing inwards, not to the side, also count? What to do if they don't really hurt?
Of course, all of these questions are simply answered by calling your doctor and going, if something like this arises. But nevertheless it would be nice if someone could maybe clarify a bit what the two middle points in the quote from above exactly mean.

A:

I get swollen lymph nodes all the time when I have a cold. If I push them, they kind of move back, and it hurts a little. When the cold clears up, they go back to normal.
In contrast, when the melanoma nobody knew I had metastasized to under my chin, the lump was entirely different from my swollen lymph nodes. Various medical people said "it might just be a swollen node" but I knew it was not. It was larger, didn't move when I pressed it, and for the first few months it didn't hurt, either. It took a long time to establish what it was, and during that time I was well aware that this was not your typical "swollen nodes" situation. If you can't feel any difference between a lump under your chin that you have now and one you had 6 months ago when you had a cold, that's because there probably is no difference. 
You can learn more about this at cancer.org but that doesn't really cover "how can I tell if my swollen nodes are ok or not?" because basically, swollen nodes are almost always ok. That's really what point 1 and 2 are about. If they've appeared when you know you have an infection, they are caused by the infection. If they go away within a week or so of the infection clearing up, they were caused by the infection. Nothing to worry about at all. Point 3 speaks to the physical differences, which to be fair you probably won't recognize until you've met a tumour, so isn't super useful in a consumer-focused list, and point 4 speaks to other cancer symptoms (nobody told me sweating was a symptom, I wish I had known that.) 
If I were giving medical advice around this it would be: ignore them until you feel you can't ignore them any longer. That's basically what I did. I think it's what most of us did. Don't be poking at your neck or armpits regularly to evaluate your lymph nodes. Most places no longer recommend monthly lump checks for breast cancer. This article mentions recommendations from Canadian sources, and I think much of that applies to trying to learn things from your own lymph nodes too.

A:

Quick answers:

The duration of node swelling >4 weeks is not already a sign of cancer or other dangerous disease. But, the duration of the node swelling tends to increase with the severity of the underlying disease.
On palpation, hard nodes feel like a stone or hard rubber and soft ones like a balloon.
You can move "movable" nodes 1-2 cm "left to right," and you cannot move "fixed" nodes.
In localized diseases, the swelling is typically limited to the nearby nodes (e.g. throat infection > the neck; leg infection > the groin).
In localized disease, the node enlargement will be more likely unilateral, and in generalized ones bilateral. The node swelling being uni- or bilateral is not already a sign of severity of the disease. For example, in both common old or lymphoma, the swelling can be uni- or bilateral.

DURATION of lymph node swelling
Swollen lymph nodes that last from few days to about 4 weeks are usually caused by acute infections or insect/snake bites.
Swollen lymph nodes that persist for more than a month can be due to chronic infections, such as tuberculosis (BMJ), HIV/AIDS, atypical mycobacteria ("walking pneumonia"), cat-scratch disease, toxoplasmosis, and chronic inflammatory conditions, such as sarcoidosis,  Kikuchi's lymphadenitis, sarcoidosis and Kawasaki's syndrome, medications (phenytoin, antibiotics) (AAFP here and here), autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (PubMed), cancers, such as lymphoma (NHS Inform), or metastases of other cancers (e.g. gastric or breast cancer) into the lymph nodes (ISPUB).
In chronic infections/inflammations, the lymph node swelling can persist for many years and have a waxing and waning course. In cancers, the swelling usually persists (and slowly increases) until the cancer is cured.
TENDERNESS and CONSISTENCY
Typically (but with exceptions):

In acute infections, lymph nodes tend to be painful/tender, soft and movable under the skin
In chronic infections/inflammations, nodes tend to be painless/non-tender and movable
In cancers, nodes tend to be painless/non-tender, hard and "fixed" (not movable at all).

LOCATION
Examples of localized (usually unilateral) node swelling:

Front of the neck: common cold, metastasis of gastric cancer
One armpit: a spread of the infection from the hand/arm, breast cancer
Groin: an infection in the leg or genitalia

Examples of generalized (usually bilateral) node swelling:

Neck and armpits (and sometimes groin): infectious mononucleosis, HIV/AIDS, sarcoidosis, lymphoma, leukemia.

Even a doctor is often not able to make a final diagnosis just from the characteristics of enlarged lymph nodes. More details about specific conditions and swollen lymph node locations: Lymphadenopathy: Differential Diagnosis and Evaluation (American Family Physician)

