Q:

Do antihistamines slow down the healing process of a bite/wound?

Taking antihistamines is common for relieving the itch sensation from a mosquito bite. This itching sensation is one of the side effects of histamine, which is produced as part of the immunological response.
In this answer How do antihistamines work? it is claimed that antihistamines won't have any effect in the immunological system, as it just blocks the symptoms/effects of histamine itself.  But these effects are needed for certain type of immunological response, for example vasoconstriction to increase vascular leakage, to allow for increased access into the affected areas (I assume).
Is blocking the effect of histamines actually counterproductive in the healing process of an itching insect bite?

A:

On histamine: Histamine causes vasodilation, not vasoconstriction. The amount of histamine blocking agents ingested largely will not counteract the whole effect of histamine, however it may prevent more pronounced side effects that are not appreciated. One of these side effects, by vasodilation and vascular leak is edema. Edema can produce pressure on capillaries and further reduce perfusion of affected areas.
Some more information on histamine: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Histamine
There are some data that hint at what you are suggesting, namely that some growth factors are accelerated by histamine (albeit the paper is on mice):
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022202X15329146
A very old paper on the role of histamine in wound healing compared durability of keloid tissue: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1791057/
The study did not use OTC antihistamines however; they found though that exogenous histamine applied topically reversed the delayed healing induced by the experimental antihistamine. This may or may not be due to the increased proliferation of cells, growth factors or increased perfusion where previously it was inhibited.
Finally, in https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wound_healing it is described how histamine allows inflammation communicating cells etc. to leave blood vessels, which are needed in wound healing e. g. for removal of dead tissue.

