Q:

Does eating fish help high blood pressure?

The common advice for people who have been diagnosed with heart problems like hypertension is "eat more fish, especially salmon." I've done a great deal of Googling and what I can't seem to figure out is whether fish is actually good for hypertension, or if it's just better than eating an equivalent portion of red meat or pork.

A:

Question: Does eating (fatty) fish help to lower high blood pressure or does it help only when eaten instead of red meat?
Answer: Merely increasing fish, including oily fish, consumption without other dietary changes (especially losing excessive weight) may not help to reduce blood pressure.
FISH
Food Groups and Risk of Hypertension: A Systematic Review and Dose-Response Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies (Academic.oup, 2017):

In our study, fish consumption was associated with a slight increase
  in hypertension risk.

FATTY FISH
Food groups and intermediate disease markers: a systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized trials (Academic.oup.com, 2018):

Consumption of fatty fish resulted in significant improvements in
  triglycerides and HDL cholesterol, whereas no effects were observed
  for...systolic and diastolic blood pressure.

RED MEAT
According to one systematic review (American Society of Nutrition, 2017), consumption of red meat is associated with high blood pressure, but in some other studies (ResearchGate, 2014; Nutrition Journal, 2017) no such association have been found.
THE DIET AS A WHOLE
A Series of Systematic Reviews on the Relationship Between Dietary Patterns and 
Health Outcomes (USDA.gov, 2014):

There is strong and consistent evidence that consumption of a DASH
  [Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension] diet results in reduced
  blood pressure in adults with above optimal blood pressure... A
  dietary pattern consistent with the DASH diet is rich in fruits,
  vegetables, low-fat dairy, fish, whole grains, fiber, potassium, and
  other minerals at recommended levels, and low in red and processed
  meat, sugar-sweetened foods and drinks, saturated fat, cholesterol,
  and sodium.

