Q:

Is there evidence that vaccine-related blood clots could be due to injection technique?

Recently, Danish health authorities including Denmark's SSI issued new guidelines for intramascular vaccination to be done with aspiration, in case some of the vaccine-induced blood clot cases are due to injection into the bloodstream. Unfortunately, I have been unable to find any recent scientific sources on this. But I found that thrombocytopenia has been consistently reported following the administration of adenoviral gene transfer vectors, and that downstream effects of platelet activation and aberrant initiation of coagulation upon intravenous adenovirus injection are dangerous.
I understand that with proper technique, one can with very high confidence perform an intramascular injection without using aspiration to confirm it. However, since the blood clot cases are very rare (on the order of 10−5), I do not believe that we can exclude accidental errors as a potential cause, unless we have sufficient evidence that intravenous injection of the vaccines do not cause blood clots. Are there any experts that know of actual scientific studies on this matter?

A:

Yes. This recent Nature article mentions a few potential hypotheses for vaccine-related blood clots, including the hypothesis in question here:

One possible factor affecting the safety of adenoviral vaccines is how they are administered. The COVID-19 vaccines are given as injections into muscle, but if the needle happens to puncture a vein, the vaccine could enter the bloodstream directly. Leo Nicolai, a cardiologist at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany, and his colleagues found in a mouse study that platelets clump together with adenovirus and become activated when the Oxford–AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into blood vessels, but not when it is injected into muscle.

It cites Nicolai et al. (2021), which provided experimental support in mice models of thrombocytopenia due to the AstraZeneca vaccine after intravenous injection but not after intramuscular injection. It does state that animal models may not reproduce effects observed in humans, but it does provide evidence that vaccine-related blood clots could be due partly to injection technique.

