Q:

Understanding cancer

I am a lay person who wants a broad technical understanding of cancer including a survey of types, their etiologies, epidemiology, treatment modalities, prognoses, and current state of the art research.  I have spent hours searching but to my surprise I cannot find a book or documentary or other resource that surveys these topics in spite of the ubiquitous impact of this family of disease.  The best I have found is "The Emperor of All Maladies" which is really an historical account, and a few TED talks.  Popular books on cancer tend to be aimed at sufferers and an endless litany of miracle cures involving vitamins and diets.
I must be overlooking something.  How did you get up to speed on these diseases?  Surely I don't need to go to med school?

A:

I've spent a few hours going through the Johns Hopkins short course entitled "Introduction to the Biology of Cancer" and which covers almost exactly what I was looking for: major types of cancer (lung, stomach, colon, liver, breast and prostate, but curiously not skin cancer), known causes (spoiler: don't smoke), genetic bases, metastatic process, treatment options, epidemiology, prognoses.
The course uses terms without definition at times, so the student should have a basic understanding of biology (example terms used without definition: "histology" and "allele").  But that's about it: no chemistry, cellular biology, pathology, statistics, or other background is needed.
My one concern thus far: there seem to be a few misstatements I wouldn't expect from Johns Hopkins professors (and I'm a medical lay person so I could be wrong, but I think it's they who are wrong).  Example misstatements:

A variation in nucleotides is called a "polymorphism" or a "single-nucleotide polymorphism" (while SNPs are overwhelmingly the most common polymorphisms, there are multiple-nucleotide polymorphisms as well)
No one else has an exact copy of your DNA (tell this to an identical twin)
A "mutation" is a detrimental genetic variation that increases the risk of developing a disease (there are benign mutations (most in fact) as well as beneficial mutations; in fact, beneficial mutations drive the process of evolution)

Am I being too pedantic?  Perhaps.  Overall, I am deeply grateful I have access to this resource, from experts, for free.  The course is available to audit for free through Coursera (https://coursera.org/learn/cancer) or you can pay $49 USD if you want to take the exams and get course credit.  (I am in no way affiliated with Coursera.)

