Q:

Do computer monitors emit electromagnetic radiation that can damage your face?

Disclaimer: I am layman in the field, but I have a legit question to ask, so before closing, please note that I am showing enough "pre-research" and ask clarified question.

I used an LCD monitor in the past and now an LED. As more as I have been sitting in front of monitor, my face becomes hotter and drier ( really feel it and after i get away, the "heating" feeling goes away in 1-2 hours), and every day I see the deterioration in my face skin as years go.
I have two questions:

Can someone get any harmful level of electromagnetic (or whatever measurement) radiation from monitor, if s/he sits in front of monitor (say, 17 inch) 8 hours a day, 365 days in year. (Some resources I've found are here, and the demonstration of it like this or this )?
If the above answer is NO, then this 2nd question becomes pointless. But if answer is YES, then What measures can one take to protect himself/herself? I am not asking for a specific product recommendation - in general, what kind of  "shields" (i.e. i've found something like  this) can be used to get some level of protection?

EDIT:
I understand that in all external sources, we might find some products on sale ( neither my links or I am affiliated to any of them. I just found those sources and don't mind if they sell something or not. My topic has emphasized question, and i've included some sources I could find). To say frankly, I am not against to pay money in order to get health/protection. I am quite thanksfull to all sites that talk about problems (even so, if they sell stuff. That is quite normal event, including StackExchange, all business in the world has it's own financial interest. Even asking this question makes some monetary benefit to SE, probably you knew that.) So, instead, I need answers to the subject, however thanks for warning me about possible fraud. But this subject is life-critical to me and I really need all information about the subject.

A:

The important thing is to distinguish between CRT monitors and other more modern technologies.
CRT monitors do emit detectable amounts of X-rays and have an extremely strong EM field as a necessary part of their operation. They also have a "degauss" pulse on power-on which is very strong and can damage magnetic media nearby. One of those pages on EM radiation linked to a rat study that was using CRT monitors extremely close to rat cages.
LCD/LED monitors do not have a "standing" field as part of their operation, but leak a small amount of EM from high-frequency signals. I do not believe there is any reliably documented harm from this level of EM.

