Q:

Do HEPA air filters serve any health benefit?

I have been researching particulate matter pollution and air filters. I read about HEPA air filters and that they can capture over 99% of particles in the air, including allergens. I was thinking that might mean HEPA air filters could really help with indoor air pollution and keep people healthier, especially in locations with high particulate matter, and especially in homes with fuel-based heating in the home. I assume this should help with asthma, allergies, and may help prevent the effects of particulate matter. But I don't see any actual studies that show this when I google the topic, I feel almost all the results are trying to sell me an air filter instead of giving a scientific explanation of the benefits.

Do HEPA air filters have a statistically significant impact on health?

A:

I found three well conducted (randomized trial) studies on this topic. Synthesis seems to be that HEPA results to significant reduction in the particulate matter in the air but the objective effects on health remains to be shown.
Study 1:
HEPA filtration resulted to better air quality. In subjects exposed to traffic-related matter, use of HEPA resulted to lower level of C-reactive protein indicating less intensive systemic inflammation. No effect was when examining subjects exposed to woodsmoke matter.
Study 2:
Subjects were exposed to traffic-realted particles and use of HEPA filtration had no effect on blood pressure, level of C-reactive protein, fibrinogen or  tumor necrosis factor alpha-receptor.
Study 3:
Investigators examined subjects exposed to "regular" indoor air. HEPA filtration had no effect  on microvascular and lung function or the biomarkers of systemic inflammation.

My personal opinion is that I strongly believe that use of HEPA filtration has beneficial health effects IF one is subjected to particulate-matter (like traffic induced). The theory is quite solid: we reduce the bad, potentially carcinogenic particulate matter in the air which we breath daily. 
As so, it is very reasonable to assume that intervention has it´s advantages. What they are, remains to be shown. It should be noted that these studies mentioned investigate only the short term effects. It reasonable to assume that long-term effects are evident (lung cancer, chronic bronchitis, COPD etc.)

