Q:

Instances of suppression of scientific ideas

I have started to compile a list of instances of suppression of scientific ideas in history. Up to now I have collected the following points:

According to Dioganes Laertius Anaxagoras was imprisoned and then exiled because of impiety. He had claimed that Helios is not a God but a heap of glowing stones.
The cases of Giordano Bruno and Galileo Galilei are well known without sources.
Cavalieri and Torricelli (a pupil of Galilei), two protagonists of  infinitesimals, were harassed and finally silenced by the leading Jesuit mathematicians. "Once the Revisors had issued their decision, a well-oiled machinery of enforcement sprang into action." (Amir Aleander: "Infinitesimal", Oneworld, 2015)
Brouwer was fired as an editor of Mathematische Annalen by Hilbert in 1928 because of incompatibility of Hilbert's and Brouwer's ideas. In this case Hilbert acted immorally and went beyond his legal rights. The whole story is given by Mueckenheim https://www.hs-augsburg.de/~mueckenh/KB/ from KB 548 to KB 658 under the title (coined by Einstein) "Krieg der Frösche und der Mäuse". The text is in German but with many English documents, some of them published for the first time.
Few years later the "Jewish science" was banned from Germany, among it the theory of relativity (100 Autoren gegen Einstein).

I am interested to collect more instances of suppression of scientific ideas. (I know that in Soviet union every author of a scientific book had to praise Lenin as the best human ever or at least had to quote some important phrase of his, but that is not what I would call a suppression.)

A:

In Soviet Union, in 1948 genetics was officially banned. Researchers in genetics
had either co confess publicly that they were doing pseudo-science and switch to another activity, or were dismissed. Several were imprisoned and even killed
(Isaak Agol, Solomon Levit, Grigorii Levitskii, Georgii Karpechenko and Georgii Nadson were executed. Nikolai Vavilov died in prison).
This was the most famous episode of persecution of science in Soviet Union, when a whole large area of science was formally banned. 
Speaking of individual scientists, there were just too many cases to mention here.
Some of this persecution was not related to their scientific activity, but in many cases it was: they were repressed because their work was found somehow inconsistent with "Marxist-Leninist philosophy".
The punishment varied from a reprimand (and a public "confession") to firing, to a term in a prison camp (some of them were real death camps), to execution.
Cybernetics (informatics, computer science) was also banned for some period, in 1960s but this was after Stalin's death, and nobody was killed for cybernetics at least.

A:

There is an interesting essay by Truesdell on the early history of the kinetic theory of gases called "The establishment stifles genius: Herapath and Waterston", in which two cases of British scientists are reported whose visionary papers on the kinetic theory of gases did not get published (or only in minor journals) and remained in the vaults of the Royal Society in London until after the authors' deaths.

A:

Michael Servetus (Miguel Serveto) was burnt alive on John Calvin's order in 1553 in Geneva. He discovered the pulmonary blood circulation, published the book, and the book was labeled heretical.

