Q:

What are some famous named groups of scientists?

Scientists are often associated together and get famous group names. In physics, I know of

Via Panisperna boys (Enrico Fermi and co. working in Rome in nuclear physics)
Princeton string quartet (Gross, Harvey, Martinec, and Rohm, working in string theory)
Oxford calculators (14th century philosophers working on early mechanics)
The Martians (Hungarian scientists working in the Manhattan project like Szilard, von Neumann, Wigner and Teller, plus later other Hungarian mathematicians)

Do you know of any other named famous groups? I could not find a key word on the internet to easily look up for more. Of course, I am excluding formal associations and societies intended to gather more members. Also excluding faculty teams unless they got a popular pseudonym or popular name (like Via Panisperna boys). This question is a [tag:big list] for science and math groups in general not only physics.

A:

A famous group of mathematicians, important above all for the development of functional analysis, was the group of the Scottish Café  in Lwow, Poland, a group of mathematicians that between the two World Wars gathered at that café around the personality of Stefan Banach.
Through the work of Hugo Steinhaus and  Stefan Banach, Lwow had become one of the most important centers of functional analysis, and, in 1929 they founded the journal Studia Mathematica, specialized in functional analysis.
The publication of the journal was interrupted at  the beginning of the Second World War, and  was resumed in 1948.
A fundamental role had the atmosphere of the Scottish Café, where Banach and his colleagues used to gather, discussing about problems of mathematics.
Stanislaw Ulam recounts that the tables of the café had marble tops, so they could write in pencil on the table during their discussions. To avoid the results to be deleted  by the waiter every day,  Banach’s wife  provided them with a large notebook, which became known as the Scottish Book and was subsequently published.
Among the most well-known attenders of the discussions at the Scottish Café  there were Stefan Banach, Hugo Steinhaus, Stanislaw Mazur, Stanislaw Saks, Stanislaw Marcin Ulam.
A recent reconstruction of the history of the mathematicians of the Scottish Café can be found in the paper Chris Zielinski, ‘Mathematicians at the Scottish Café’, (2018). The author’s  grandfather  Tomasz Zielinski was the owner of the Scottish Café.

A:

If we consider economics to be a science then the group known as the Chicago Boys might be an example. They were a group of Latin American economists, chiefly Chilean, who had prominent political roles. Their name comes from the fact that they had trained in Chicago.

A:

The Vienna Circle (German: Wiener Kreis)

...a group of elite philosophers and scientists drawn from the natural and social sciences, logic and mathematics who met regularly from 1924 to 1936 at the University of Vienna, chaired by Moritz Schlick.
Inner Circle: Gustav Bergmann, Rudolf Carnap, Herbert Feigl, Philipp Frank, Kurt Gödel, Hans Hahn, Olga Hahn-Neurath, Béla Juhos, Felix Kaufmann, Victor Kraft, Karl Menger, Richard von Mises, Otto Neurath, Rose Rand, Josef Schächter, Moritz Schlick, Friedrich Waismann, Edgar Zilsel.
Periphery: Alfred Jules Ayer, Egon Brunswik, Karl Bühler, Josef Frank, Else Frenkel-Brunswik, Heinrich Gomperz, Carl Gustav Hempel, Eino Kaila, Hans Kelsen, Charles W. Morris, Arne Naess, Karl Raimund Popper, Willard Van Orman Quine, Frank P. Ramsey, Hans Reichenbach, Kurt Reidemeister, Alfred Tarski, Olga Taussky-Todd, Ludwig Wittgenstein.

