Q:

Articles published without their authors being aware

In 1962, a paper called “Multiplication of Many-Digital Numbers by Automatic Computers”, by Anatoly Karatsuba and Yuri Ofman, was published at the Proceedings of the USSR Academy of Sciences. It was here that the Karatsuba multiplication algorithm appeared for the first time. However, Karatsuba himself had nothing to do with the writing of the paper. It was actually written by Kolmogorov (probably with the collaboration of Ofman), and Karatsuba only became aware of that when he was given the reprints that were due to him.
I wonder whether there is some other known example, in Mathematics or in Theoretical Physics, of a situation in which a paper is published on behalf of a person who could have published it themself, without that person being aware of that until the paper was published. So, I am not talking about, for instance, papers that were published after their author died, or something like that.

A:

In theoretical physics, the celebrated 1948 Alpher–Bethe–Gamow paper, or αβγ paper on cosmic nucleosynthesis.
Bethe's name was thrown in, unbeknownst to him, at first, as a practical joke, for which G Gamow was notorious, to rhyme with the Greek alphabet;  but it is not as though his friend Bethe, the  pioneer of nucleosynthesis, was alien to the field.
The inveterate perpetrator, Gamow, described in his 1952 book The Creation of the Universe, 1952 (Dover, ISBN-13: ‎978-0486438689),

The results of these calculations were first announced in a letter to The Physical Review, April 1, 1948. This was signed Alpher, Bethe, and Gamow, and is often referred to as the 'alphabetical article'. It seemed unfair to the Greek alphabet to have the article signed by Alpher and Gamow only, and so the name of Dr. Hans A. Bethe (in absentia) was inserted in preparing the manuscript for print. Dr. Bethe, who received a copy of the manuscript, did not object, and, as a matter of fact, was quite helpful in subsequent discussions. There was, however, a rumor that later, when the alpha, beta, gamma theory went temporarily on the rocks, Dr. Bethe seriously considered changing his name to Zacharias. The close fit of the calculated curve and the observed abundances is shown in Fig. 15, which represents the results of later calculations carried out on the electronic computer of the National Bureau of Standards by Ralph Alpher and R. C. Herman (who stubbornly refuses to change his name to Delter).

A:

Probably the most famous historical example is the Tartaglia-Cardano affair, where Cardano published the solution to a case of depressed cubic he learned from Tartaglia in Ars Magna after swearing on the Gospels not to do it, see e.g. Feldmann, The Cardano-Tartaglia Dispute and Why is "Cardano's Formula" (wrongly) attributed to him? Tartaglia was saving the gem for his own book that he never quite got around to writing. Cardano's justification was that del Ferro already knew the solution before Tartaglia. However, he did not share it and Tartaglia discovered his independently, along with an additional case of depressed cubic.
This said, Cardano credited del Ferro and Tartaglia, and did quite a bit more than both of them combined, providing a comprehensive analysis of the general cubic. However, he could not make it public without revealing the key Tartaglia provided, that he repeatedly tried and failed to find himself. The situation is somewhat reminiscent of what happened with Kolmogorov and Karatsuba, see Was Kolmogorov enraged after learning about the Karatsuba multiplication algorithm? Having one's name attached, in some form, to a key result in the area where one spent much effort might seem fair, even if they failed to obtain the result themselves. Especially when non-publication by the original author holds up emergence of the big picture that frames their own contributions.

A:

I have a paper with 5 co-authors which was written and submitted to a journal without my approval, and even without notifying   me about it. The editor handling the paper informed me about it but it was published without my approval. The good outcome was that as a result of this paper my Erdos number is 2 because one of the 5 co-authors was a co-author of Erdos.
I have also another paper published by my co-author without my approval, but it was a "recreational math" paper.

