Q:

Famous Scientific Conflicts and Controversies

To clear any misunderstandings, I am interested not in the gossipy aspect of the matter (i.e. conflicts that had mainly to do with character-clashes and idiosyncratic psychs) but rather in conflicts that today are characterized by the following:  
1) Both scientists (or groups of scientists) that were involved are widely recognized as important contributors to their science.  
2) The conflict lasted, and represented a deeper methodological or philosophical distance.  
As for the "final result": Either some sort of synthesis has emerged, during their life-time or later, or, if not synthesized, their respective and apparently conflicting positions/approaches have come to be understood as "complementary", in some sense. But it may also be the case that the one side eventually "lost definitely the argument".
Sensibly, I am looking to cases considered "settled" by the contemporary scientific community at large, and not for current scientific debates/controversies.  
One example I have to offer is from Statistics: The [Fisher] / [Neyman-Pearson] conflict regarding Hypothesis Testing (one can check this SE post on Cross Validated for stimulus). This controversy satisfies the two criteria above. The "synthesis" that has emerged is criticized by many, while there is another view that considers the two approaches as complementary.
PS: I am not sure what tags would be appropriate for this question.

A:

Probably the most famous conflict that satisfies your requirements is the conflict between
"Ptolemy system" and "Copernic system", though few people understand this even today:-)
This conflict became so famous because of the intrusion of a non-scientific authority, that is catholic church. From the point of view of astronomy, there are two aspects:
a) the choice of coordinate system. We are taught in elementary physics courses that this is indeed a matter of choice, of convenience. Some coordinate systems are good for one purpose, others for another purpose. Heliocentric system is by far more convenient when you want to write equations of motion. But geocentric system is more convenient in navigation, where they do not care about "how planets really move" but in "how this looks from the Earth".
b) the more important question whether the orbits are combinations of circles with uniform motion, or Kepler ellipses and the motion obeys Kepler laws. Of course, the discovery of Kepler's laws was a really great discovery (probably more important than the Heliocentric system), because they led to the discovery of the law of gravity, etc., and because they have much simpler mathematical formulation. However when people try to solve the equations of motion for more than 2 bodies, they obtain a solution in a form of
a trigonometric series of functions depending on uniformly changing angles, which is
essentially the same as Ptolemy did.
So you can think of the final result as a representation of the motion as a combination
of epicycles.
So in this case we really have a kind of synthesis after a long controversy. 
Of course this conflict had also other significance beyond astronomy. 
I don't want to discuss philosophical consequences.
The interference of the church into purely scientific matters undermined the church authority, so I would say it lost the cause in the long run. 
On the other hand, Galileo is also not so innocent in triggering this conflict. (Copernicus and Kepler did not have any conflict with the church). And the main "proof" that Galileo presented for "moving Earth" was wrong. So it would be much more reasonable on the part of Galileo to hold Copernicus view that the difference between the two systems is mathematical, the choice of the coordinate system, which after all is closer to the truth.
Galileo's main "proof" was based on his totally incorrect theory of the tides which contradicted principles of mechanics he discovered himself in the young age.
EDIT. Some references. They are really abundant (any comprehensive history of astronomy). Some of my favorite in Latin aplphabet:

Simon Gindikin, Tales of mathematicians and physicists. Springer, New York, 2007.
(This is a collection of biographies written by professional mathematician for general public).
Stillman Drake, Galileo at work. A very comprehensive scholarly analysis of Galileo's work and scientific biography, including all controversies. Based on his work and correspondence.
Jean Meeus, Astronomical algorithms, Willmann-Bell, Richmond VA, 1998. How ephemerides
are computed today, with complete formulas for the motion of Sun, Moon and planets, and other related calculations.
John Louis Emil Dreyer, History of planetary systems from Thales to Kepler. Very good book for a beginner.  Newer editions are called "History of astronomy from Thales to Kepler"

5.Jean Baptiste Joseph Delambre, Histoire de l'astronomie ancienne, Histoire de l'astronomie du Moyen Age,
Histoire de l'astronomie moderne. These three books are for a serious student of history of astronomy.

A:

Quite a famous example from modern physics deals with the inherent randomness of quantum theory. In the early years of quantum mechanics when the formulation in terms of wave functions was developed, the question of interpretation arose. Copenhagen interpretation, developed mainly by Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg became the most accepted of all the possibilities. It states that the wave function gives a full description of a system and an outcome of a measurement is random with probability distribution which can be determined by the wave function and form of measurement.
Albert Einstein was one of the scientists that did not like the idea of non-deterministic universe and argued that this randomness comes from some unknown parameters that we are not aware of. This local hidden variable theory would then be completely deterministic.
It was not until a few decades later, in 1964, when John Bell formulated inequalities that have to be obeyed by every deterministic theory but can be violated by quantum theory in an inherently random world. Since then, the violation of these inequalities has been observed many times showing that quantum theory indeed is fundamental and no deterministic theory can explain the effects that we observe.

A:

Another famous controversy was about the age of the Earth.
It was found long ago that the temperature in the very deep mines increases with depth.
Using the model that the Earth evolved from a hot state when the rocks were melted, and was cooling down ever since, one could estimate the age from the known temperature of
melting of the rocks and the current gradient of the temperature near the surface.
This was one of the main motivations of Fourier's seminal book Analytic theory of heat
(where he invented the Fourier transform). Fourier's idea was further developed by
W. Thomson (Lord Kelvin) who arrived at the estimate between 20 and 400 million years.
Geologists and Darwinists could not accept such a short time. By the way, it is interesting to now how exactly the Darwinists estimated the time necessary for the evolution in 19-th century. I will be glad if someone explains this.
As a result Thomson found himself in the camp of anti-evolutionists:-)
On the other hand he was supported by such people as Helmholtz and astronomer Newcomb.
Lord Kelvin died in 1907, while radioactivity was discovered in 1896. It took a while
to understand that  it is radioactivity
which causes additional heating of the Earth and makes Fourier and Kelvin correct calculations
non-applicable. Such a sad story. 

