Q:

Did F. P. Ramsey complete a graduate degree?

There are numerous online sources giving biographical sketches of Ramsey's life; E.g., Wikipedia, Cambridge respository, St. Andrews MacTutor.
We learn that Ramsey died just before his 27th birthday in January of 1930, almost seven years after receiving his bachelor's degree in mathematics from Trinity, Cambridge.  No other degrees are cited as being conferred by Ramsey.  However, Ramsey seems to have been employed by King's College, Cambridge in various academic capacities - fellow and lecturer in mathematics.
Summarising :

1923 confers bachelor's degree in maths at Cambridge.
1924 becomes a fellow of Kings College with the support of Keynes.
1926 becomes a lecturer in maths at Kings College.
1929 becomes Wittgenstein's "nominal" supervisor at Cambridge.

He could not have done his graduate studies in 1924 since he was in Vienna undergoing psychoanalysis and getting chummy with Wittgenstein. None of the online sources I have consulted mention any graduate degree.  Certainly from a modern perspective it is hard to imagine someone becoming a university lecturer at Cambridge on the back of an undergraduate degree, even in the case of a senior Wrangler graduating with high honours. In the years between his bachelor's degree and his death he produced a number of papers on a wide variety of subjects - maths, philosophy, psychology, and economics - so he appears to have been busy.  
Q:  Did Ramsey confer a graduate degree, and if so in what subject and what was the subject matter of his thesis?

A:

See :

Nils-Eric Sahlin, The Philosophy of F.P. Ramsey (1990), Ch.10 Biographical glimpses, page 221-on :

taking a degree in mathematics at Trinity College, Cambridge, in the summer of 1923. He got firstclass honours and became the most outstanding mathematics
  graduate at Cambridge. Ramsey never went on to write a Ph.D. thesis and I do not know whether the idea had even occurred to him.
In 1921 Ramsey became acquainted with J. M. Keynes through his friend Richard Braithwaite and thanks to Keynes's influence Ramsey became a Fellow of King's in 1924 at the age of only 21. Two years later he was made a lecturer in mathematics at Cambridge.

