Q:

Which physicists died very young or in a tragic way?

Inspired by Which mathematicians died very young or in a tragic way? , I wonder which physicists had similar fates.
A quick search lead me to Heinrich Hertz who died from a malignant bone condition at 36. Ludwig Boltzmann is also known for committing suicide before seeing how important his contribution was to prove the existence of atoms. Paul Ehrenfest had also a very tragic story that I am unable to write down here. What are some examples? Be free to expand on the above cited. Was there some Galois kind of figure?

A:

Henry Moseley was KIA at Gallipoli at the age of 27
Rene Gateaux was KIA in the Battle of Grand Couronné at the age of 25. (France lost many young mathematicians in WWI. The list can be continued).
Frank Ramsey, mathematician who died at the age of 27. He was the founder of
Ramsey theory, a hot topic in todays research. Wikpedia lists his important contributions to other sciences, but not to pure math! It is truly amazing how much he accomplished by the age of 27.
Alexander Friedmann died at the age of 37 (of poisoning and/or poor treatement).
Matvei Bronstein was executed by Soviet communists at the age of 32.
Lev Shubnikov was executed by Soviet communists at the age of 36.
Semyon Shubin [ru] died in Soviet prison at the age of 30.
Hans Hellman was executed by Soviet communists at the age of 35.
Alexander Witt [ru] died in a Soviet prison camp at the age of 36.
(Russian Wikipedia
has a list of physicists killed or imprisoned by Soviet authorities; I selected from this list those who were killed at the age less than 40, and gave links to English Wikipedia when available.)
I don't have a list of mathematicians, but the number of victims of Soviet regime was very large.

A:

A few more.  At the time of their deaths ...

Alexis Thérèse Petit was 28 (tuberculosis): known for work in thermodynamics, including the Dulong–Petit law
Walther Ritz was 31 (tuberculosis): known primarily for his numerical eigenvalue approximation technique (the Rayleigh–Ritz method) but wikipedia mentions that he also made an empirical discovery regarding the spectral lines for atoms.
Otto Sackur was 34 (chemical explosion): known for the Sackur–Tetrode equation
Hugo Tetrode was 35 (tuberculosis): known for the Sackur–Tetrode equation
Nicolas Léonard Sadi Carnot was 36 (cholera): well known pioneer in thermodynamics (e.g., the Carnot cycle)

Also, Ettore Majorana disappeared at the age of 31. He introduced the concept of Majorana fermions, among other things. In his well known biography on Fermi, Emilio Segrè mentions some important work Majorana did in nuclear physics which went unpublished.

A:

Harry Daghlian, 24
Louis Slotin, 35
Both killed at Los Alamos during separate reckless criticality accidents with the same plutonium bomb core (afterwards nicknamed the "Demon Core").
Daghlian died 25 days after the accident after suffering severe radiation poisoning and falling into a coma.  Slotin died after nine days of progressive and agonizing deterioration of his bodily functions.

