Q:

Help in Understanding Emission theory of Empedocles

Empedocles state that the Eyes have fire in them surrounded by water, by this fire ray of the beam goes from eyes to object, then we see that thing, But Question arises to me, Than why not people able see in dark/night, and how they explain shadow of object and light of sun and star, Empedocles must have given any answer o this problem somewhere, but I am unable to find them? Please help me.

A:

Much of Empedocles exists in fragments of what he originally wrote, so finding his literal writing on the subject may be difficult.  However, we can infer what he said based on the commentary provided by other writers.
Based on snippets in the below link (keyword search "vision" and "night"), it seems that, while our vision reaches from our eyes and reflects back to them for perception, Empedocles also realized that light of the sun was was needed in order for vision to reflect back to our eyes, otherwise it just passes through the object.
Source: https://history.hanover.edu/texts/presoc/emp.html
PASSAGES FROM ARISTOTLE RELATING TO EMPEDOKLES:

Empedokles says that the light from the sun first enters the
intermediate space before it comes to vision or to the earth.

PASSAGES IN DIELS' 'DOXOGRAPHIC GRAECI' RELATING TO EMPEDOKLES:

And he attempts to describe what vision is; and he says that what is
in the eye is fire and water, and what surrounds it is earth and air,
through which light being fine enters, as the light in lanterns. Pores
of fire and water are set alternately, and the fire-pores recognise
white objects, the water-pores black objects; for the colours
harmonise with the pores. And the colours move into vision by means of
effluences. And they are not composed alike . . . and some of opposite
elements; for some the fire is within and for others it is on the
outside, so some animals see better in the daytime and others at
night; those that have less fire see better by day, for the light
inside them is balanced by the light outside them; and those that have
less water see better at night, for what is lacking is made up for
them. And in the opposite case the contrary is true; for those that
have the more fire are dim-sighted, since the fire increasing plasters
up and covers the pores of water in the daytime; and for those that
have water in excess, the same thing happens at night; for the fire is
covered up by the water. . . . Until in the case of some the water is
separated by the outside light, and in the case of others the fire by
the air; for the cure of each is its opposite. That which is composed
of both in equal parts is the best tempered and most excellent vision.
This, approximately, is what he says concerning vision.

