Q:

Where can I learn more about intellectuals who were wrongfully harmed for their correct theories?

Epistemology and philosophy of science reference intellectual, sagacious, scholarly vanguards such as Michael Servetus  (who correctly explicated pulmonary circulation) and Dr Ignaz Semmelweis (who correctly advocated for handwashing) wrongfully condemned and contemned for averring their beliefs 'ahead of their time'. 
I wish to learn more about such vanguards; so are there any books or lists or resources? 

A:

I would just like to point out a debatable element of selection in the question.
When you say "correct theory," you are implicitly seeking "scientists" martyred by religious authorities, which is our modern view of the matter. Hypatia, Giordano Bruno, and Galileo are the "poster-children" for this view.
One would never make this sort of claim for Jesus, St. Paul, Socrates, Robespierre, the Paris Communards, or the many socialists killed in counter-revolutionary actions. They did not have what we would call "correct theories."
Other cases are borderline. What about Newton's attacks on Leibniz, whose calculus notation in fact proved superior? Were Cantor and Boltzmann driven to their deaths for scientific nonconformism? What about the various scientists suppressed by Stalin and Lysenko or by the McCarthy hearings?
Interestingly, one of the first "scientific martyrs" reveals the antiquity of the rift and the early divorce between the sacred and the secular. This was the purported slaying of Hippasus by the Pythagoreans for revealing proofs of the irrationals. The Pythagoreans were, in turn, slain for their cultish hoarding of knowledge.
But let's return to Galileo, the most famous case. To be gratuitously provocative, one can make the case the Galileo was, in fact, persecuted by the Church for being insufficiently "scientific." He claimed his solar-centric views were "the truth," whereas the Church had allowed Copernican views, as long as they were explicitly qualified as "hypothesis only." In this respect, one could say the Church was closer to strict scientific methodology.         

