Q:

I'm looking for books of Muslim scholars/scientists who have had some influence in the development of modern science

In the Golden Age of Islam, Muslim scholars and scientists wrote a lot of books and manuscripts in many sciences such as medicine.
My question is, are there any books which have had some longer (or future) influence on the development modern theories?
What books have been translated into other languages?
As an example, I know that Avicenna's (Ibn Sina) book about Medicine "The Canon of Medicine القانون في الطب‎ al-Qānūn fī aṭ-Ṭibb) was used as a medical textbook through the 18th century in Europe!
Well, if I need to focus my question, my focus here could be on Medicine!
If i don't need to focus this would be great!

A:

Islamic science and mathematics experienced a boom during middle ages, contributions in mathematics, mechanics, astronomy and medicine were especially prominent, and had a deep impact on Renaissance Europe. There are many historical articles on Muslim Heritage: Science, see also links on Muslim Philosophers, Mathematicians & Scientists. 
In mathematics aside from Khwarizmi's famous Hisab Al-Jabr wal Muqabala we have Omar Khayyam's Treatise on the Demonstration of Problems of Algebra, that has complete classification and geometric solution of all cubics. His also Explanations of the Difficulties in the Postulates of Euclid is considered the first work on the parallel postulate that avoids circular attempts to prove it, and anticipates a path to the hyperbolic geometry using a quadrilateral, later rediscovered by Saccheri and named after him in the West. Al-Karaji's s Al-Fakhri Fil-Jabr wal-Muqabala (Glorious on Algebra) introduced notations for all positive and negative powers of a variable and gave laws of exponents among them. Al-Samawal's Shining Book on Calculation gave the first version of long/synthetic division of polynomials. Al-Tusi's Treatise On The Quadrilateral was the most authoritative medieval work on trigonometry, and the first one to treat it independently of astronomy. See Kadyrov's Muslim Contributions to Mathematics for more.
Meragha school reformed epicyclic astronomy of Ptolemy making it consistent with (Aristotelian) dynamics, improving its precision and computational techniques. Al-Tusi’s Tadhkira i ilm al-Haya (Memoir on Astronomy) was a thorough critique of Ptolemy, especially of eccentrics and equants that appeared as ad hoc tricks. Al-Tusi found a way to model oscillatory linear motion with epicycles (the so-called Tusi couple), and used it in place of equants. In the Final Quest Concerning the Rectification of Principles al-Shatir eliminated eccenters and equants  completely, without sacrificing precision, by mounting epicycles on epicycles. Although there is no direct confirmation, numerical coincidences strongly suggest that Copernicus used al-Shatir's models in his heliocentric reformulation. 
In his influential commentary on Aristotle's physics Avempace revived the impetus theory of Philoponus (Avicenna discussed it as well), an alternative to Aristotle's theory of projectile motion, and an inspiration for momentum in modern dynamics. His commentary made its way to Europe, where the impetus theory was taken up by Buridan, Oresme and the merton school, who eventually influenced Galileo and Descartes. 

A:

In mathematics, perhaps the best known is
"The Compendious Book on Calculation by Completion and Balancing" by the Persian scholar Muḥammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī.
The English words "algebra" and "algorithm" derive from this.  
The date is around 820.

A:

I would like to mention:

J. L. Berggren, Mathematik im mittelalterlichen Islam, 2010
M. Paty, Rationalités comparées des contenus mathématiques, 2002, Colloque des sciences arabes
Michael Morgan: Lost History: The Enduring Legacy of Muslim Scientists, Thinkers, and Artists, 2008
and especially the Encyclopedia of the History of Arabic Science, edited by R. Rashed, with three volumes

Volume 1: "Astronomy--Theoretical and applied"
Volume 2: "Mathematics and the Physical Sciences"
Volume 3: "Technology, Alchemy, and the Life Sciences". 

The works of Roshdi Rashed deserve a lot of attention. I recently heard from him through a collection of talks by François Nicolas, who draw relationships between IXth-XIIth century "arabic" mathematics toward modern category theory. Some of his works might be in French. Yet, some of his books are in arabic on one page, and translated (at least in French) on the other pages, which is quite  interesting.

"Al-Bahir in Algebra As-Samaw'al", with S. Ahmad, University Press of Damascus, Damascus, 1972.
"The Work algebraic al-Khayyam", in collaboration with A. Djebbar, University Press of Aleppo, Aleppo, 1981.
"Between Arithmetic and Algebra. Research on the History of Arabic Mathematics", Collection "Arabic Sciences and Philosophy. Studies and included", Les Belles Lettres, Paris 1984. (ISBN 2251355316)
"Studies on Avicenna", directed by J. Jolivet and R. Rashed, collection "Arabic Sciences and Philosophy - Studies and included", Les Belles Lettres, Paris, 1984.
"Mathematics of Sharaf al-Din al-Tusi. Algebra and Geometry in the twelfth century", Vol. II Collection "Arabic Sciences and Philosophy - Texts and Studies", Les Belles Lettres, Paris, 1986.
Arabic translation: Beirut, 1998 .
"Optics and Mathematics: Research on the history of scientific thought in Arabic," Variorum reprints, Aldershot, 1992.
"Geometry and Dioptrics the tenth century: Ibn Sahl al-Quhi and Ibn al-Haytham," Les Belles Lettres, Paris, 1993.
"Al-Khayyam mathematician", in collaboration with B. Vahabzadeh, Bookstore Blanchard, Paris, 1999.

