Q:

How did Newton and Kepler (actually) do it?

Today if I want to calculate an elliptical orbit of some object due to the gravity of another, I use Runge-Kutta integration, and I can see the individual steps I use shown in that article.
Back "in the day..." Kepler, Newton, and others might have used what we now call Kepler's Equation: $M=E-e \sin(E)$ where given M one had to solve for E.
I would like to see how Kepler, Newton, and similar contemporaries actually performed the calculation of the position in the orbit for a specified time. Are there reproductions, or images of their notes, showing the actual steps each of them used to solve this equation?
Did Newton or Leibniz also use some form of integration as an independent method to obtain the motion of an elliptical orbit as well? Are there images or reproductions of those calculations available anywhere?

A:

Goldstine, A History of Numerical Analysis from the 16th through the 19th Century (1977), describes Kepler's approach (p. 47), which may be found in Kepler's Epitome Astronomiae Copernicanae (1618), Ch. 4, Bk. V., pp. 665f.  It is an iterative numerical algorithm Kepler called regula positionum.  Goldstine describes the steps of an example, which begins on p. 686 of the Epitome, but does not develop the theory (probably because it was not seminal?).
Goldstine's numbers do not always match Kepler's; he may have corrected them or taken them from an excerpt containing this section printed (and translated) in Great Books of the World, vol. 16 (1952), pp. 998-999 (Goldstine's reference).
Goldstine (p. 64) also refers to Newton's solutions, which may be found in Principia, Book I, Prop. XXXI (Prob. XXIII) and Scholium.  (Note Goldstine's reference "Problem XXII" is a typo.)
Newton first gives a solution involving a rolling wheel, to which the elliptical orbit is fixed. The wheel is rolled a distance that depends on the time elapsed, while a point on the ellipse fixed to the wheel traces a cycloid.  He then constructs the point on the orbit and shows it has swept out the correct area.
Then admitting that foregoing method is hard to solve, Newton gives a solution by approximation in the scholium.  Newton's method is, what else, Newton's Method (often called the Newton-Raphson Method today), although it is presented in the geometric terms of the problem.

A:

Kepler's Proofs will get you started on your quest.
This article mentions 987 folio pages of arithmetic; you should also look at the tables and methods of Copernicus.

A:

At the time of Kepler, not only Runge-Kutta, but the very notion of the differential equation was not avalailable:-)
If you really would like to see how Kepler calculated the orbits, why don't you look at his own
work, Astronomia Nova, which is available in English translation?

