Q:

Was "Kepler's third law" deduced from the Galilean moons, or from planetary motion?

I have read that Galileo was able to start observing the four large satellites of Jupiter in 1610. Did he ever attempt to estimate the relative sizes of the four orbits, and their periods? 
I made a plot of the period of the four satellites versus their orbit size, as a ratio to the diameter of Jupiter at the equator. That would have been easier to sketch/estimate than absolute size.
Is there any record of a plot or graph somewhat like this - to visualize even qualitatively what kind of relationship there was? 
Today one would make a log-log plot and immediately "discover" the 3/2 slope, but logarithms weren't available yet. 
About eight years later, Kepler "articulated" what we now call Kepler's third law, the period squared being proportional to the diameter (semi-major axis) cubed. Did that realization come from these moons, or from looking at planetary motion instead?
One reason I ask about the Galilean moons - the eccentricity of orbits of these four moons is very low - their motion would be easily interpreted using just circles, while several planets have significant eccentricity and their positions would require more sophisticated math.
Since the relationship of the planets and that of the Jovian moons would have a different constant - was it immediately interpreted as a measure of the ratio of masses of Jupiter and the Sun?
This is my first question here - the wording may seem colloquial, but my question is serious.

A:

The Wikipedia article on Harmonices Mundi states that Kepler gave only the conclusion. 
Since he had taken all of Brahe's observations, the presumption is that he used this data, for he was very familiar with it, and it was more than adequate for the task.  His published result describes the relationship in terms of the sun and planets, but not planets and moons.
See also Was Jupiter's mass “guessed at” by Kepler or Galileo?

A:

Kepler's third law was discovered on the basis of comparison of periods and distances of the planets. This was in 1619. Only in 1621 Kepler noticed that Galileo moons of Jupiter also satisfy this law. This fact was later used by Galileo as an argument in favor of Copernican system.
By the way, Kepler was one of the first astronomers who used logarithms.
(Napier's discovery was communicated to Ticho Brahe in 1590, and Kepler was Ticho's
assistant in 1600-1601.)

