Q:

Concept of a function and Idea of a formula as a function

Enderton Elements of Set Theory, p. 43 (1977, Academic Press), writes:

There was a reluctance to separate the concept of a function itself from the idea of a written formula defining the function. 

What is the basis for the above historical claim? And at around what point did the concept of a function itself from the idea of a formula become firmly separated?
It seems interesting that what is today regarded as an elementary mistake had a strong historical basis. 
Fuller quote from Enderton: 

This question originally posted over at Math.SE.

A:

You can see History of the function concept.
For Euler (1748) :

a function of a variable quantity is an analytic expression composed in any way whatsoever of the variable quantity and numbers or constant quantities

i.e. a function was a “symbolic expression” that, received a value as “input” allows us to calculate a corresponding “output” value.
It seems that it is in Dirichelet (1837, page 135), that we can find the first explicit definition of the concept of function as “arbitrary correspondence”:

If now a unique finite $y$ corresponding to each $x$, and moreover in such a way that when $x$ ranges continuously over the interval from $a$ to $b$, $y=f(x)$ also varies continuously, then $y$ is called a continuous function of x for this interval.
It is not at all necessary here that $y$ be given in terms of $x$ by one and the same law throughout the entire interval, and it is not necessary that it be regarded as a dependence expressed using mathematical operations [emphasis added].

A:

I recommend an excellent account by Luzin in the Monthly: MR1615544, MR1613935
(American math Monthly 105 (1998), 1 59-67 and 3, 263-270.
It is usually overlooked that there are actually several different notions of function in modern mathematics. One is the Dirichlet's definition which is usually cited (where two sets are given X and Y, and a rule which to each element of X puts into correspondence an element of Y). Notice that X is a part of the definition!
So the problem of the type "find the domain of $\log((x-1)(x-2))$ makes no sense from the point of this definition. 
In 18 century, Euler understood a function as some analytic expression whose domain is not given in advance. This different notion (from Dirichlet's definition) is not "out of date". It evolved into a modern definition of an "analytic function". Roughly speaking, an
"analytic expression" has a "natural domain of definition", which is not given in advance.
And problems of the type "find the domain of definition" of an analytic function make perfect sense in modern mathematics.
There are also other notions of functions in modern mathematics (generalized functions, or distributions), which also do not fit in the Dirichlet definition. Moreover, these generalized functions are in some sense closer to what physicists and engineers mean by a function than the Dirichlet definition.

