Q:

Did physicists around 1900 really believe they were close to "figuring it all out"?

I've encountered the claim that around the end of the 19th century, physicists believed that their understanding of the physical world was close to being complete.
One example of this claim can be found in Wikipedia's article on History of physics 

... So profound were these and other developments that it was generally accepted that all the important laws of physics had been discovered and that, henceforth, research would be concerned with clearing up minor problems and particularly with improvements of method and measurement.

Was this really generally accepted? What sources support that?

A:

On the other hand, consider this quote from The Feynman Lectures on Physics

[In 1869], in a lecture, [Maxwell] said, “I have now put before you what I consider to be the greatest difficulty yet encountered by the molecular theory.” These words represent the first discovery that the laws of classical physics were wrong. This was the first indication that there was something fundamentally impossible, because a rigorously proved theorem did not agree with experiment. About 1905, Sir James Hopwood Jeans and Lord Rayleigh (John William Strutt) were to talk about this puzzle again. One often hears it said that physicists at the latter part of the nineteenth century thought they knew all the significant physical laws and that all they had to do was to calculate more decimal places. Someone may have said that once, and others copied it. But a thorough reading of the literature of the time shows they were all worrying about something. Jeans said about this puzzle that it is a very mysterious phenomenon, and it seems as though as the temperature falls, certain kinds of motions “freeze out.”

A:

According to (the late) William Strauss and Neil Howe in Generations, there are periodic episodes of scientific exhaustion, at least in the United States. For instance, around 1910,  the head of the U.S. patent office was (mis)quoted as saying: "Everything that can be invented has been invented." In 1992, Francis Fukuyama famously opined about "the end of history."  These "periods" occur roughly eighty years, or four generations apart.
What really happened was that these remarks followed a recent burst of scientific achievement; the space program and "star wars" in Fukuyama's case, and the industrialization of America, in the earlier case. At one level, such people are "right;" the recent pace of scientific achievement can't be maintained. But they then wrongly conclude that scientific progress has "come to an end."

A:

See, for instance, A. A. Michelson's claim in the second lecture of his 1899 (pub. 1903) lectures Light Waves and Their Uses:

Before entering into these details, however, it may be well
  to reply to the very natural question: What would be the
  use of such extreme refinement in the science of measurement? Very briefly and in general terms the answer would
  be that in this direction the greater part of all future discovery must lie. The more important fundamental laws and
  facts of physical science have all been discovered, and these
  are now so firmly established that the possibility of their ever
  being supplanted in consequence of new discoveries is exceedingly remote. Nevertheless, it has been found that there
  are apparent exceptions to most of these laws, and this is
  particularly true when the observations are pushed to a limit,
  i. e., whenever the circumstances of experiment are such that
  extreme cases can be examined. Such examination almost
  surely leads, not to the overthrow of the law, but to the discovery of other facts and laws whose action produces the
  apparent exceptions.

It is unclear to me whether this was merely an unpopular, optimistic bluster, or whether this quote represents an entire school of thought at the time. Especially troublesome to me is Michelson's involvement in the famous 1880s experiments on light and ether... surely the conflicting results gave him some pause?
On the other hand, note his last two sentences above - Michelson is clearly not positing that all of physics is "done" per se. Instead, his view seems to be that "the more important fundamental laws" are correct, modulo certain small improvements that can still be made.
Perhaps it is this bolded statement that represented the general attitude of the time, and not the statement that physics was "finished." Of course, while this quote does not conclusively answer your first question, it does provide another data point towards the second.

