Q:

Historically how it was discovered that we need fields to describe matter?

This question is from one historical perspective. The question is: how physicists historically found out that one needs quantum fields to describe matter?
Being more detailed. Let us consider the electromagnetic field for a while. Classically this was already a field. Now, if I understood the history correctly, in the days of old quantum theory, when Planck proposed the solution to the blackbody radiation problem in terms of quantized energy levels, and when Einstein did the same to solve the photoelectric effect problem, they were essentialy proposing that light (and hence the electromagnetic waves) could be described in terms of photons.
Since light classicaly was a field it seems to be expected that when this field was properly quantized we would get these particles somehow as proposed by Planck/Einstein. I believe this was done by Heisenberg as soon as he proposed his matrix mechanics.
If I recall, he applied his methods to the electromagnetic field and found a collection of harmonic oscilators, which would be the particles (photons).
Now, it turns out that today we use fields to describe all matter. Some physicist even say that fields are more fundamental than particles altogether.
But other matter (like electrons) classicaly isn't a field like the photon. And in truth, by the historical development of quantum mechanics for the other particles one would expect wave functions instead of fields.
Actualy, it seems Dirac himself proposed his equation as a "wave function equation" rather than a field equation, only later this approach being taken.
So: while the photon is classicaly a field and the historical development pointed towards a particle upon quantization, the quantum field point of view seems quite natural. 
But for other matter (like electrons, and all other fundamental particles), how physicists found out, historically, that the field viewpoint was needed? What led physicists to realize one needed to describe all matter with fields, and not just the electromagnetic field?

A:

The Wikipedia coverage of the history is pretty spot on, and there is hardly a point in exactly dating the incremental formal developments of the second quantization picture of Dirac, Jordan, Wigner, Pauli, and Heisenberg, etc. QED has served since as a prototype of arbitrary creation and annihilation of matter and antimatter, made possible by relativity, that I suspect you are already aware of.
Here, however, I would wish to emphasize  Fermi's 1933  crucial utilization of QFT to do "real physics" (Wigner);  particle physics as we understand it even today: he established that the creation, annihilation and transmutation of particles in the weak interaction beta decay could best be described in QFT, specifically through his eponymous quartic fermion interaction. This C N Yang paper is essential reading on the subject. Note link.
A neutron disappears, a proton, electron and neutrino appear, in a calculable framework.The essence of QFT is collective accounting of indefinite numbers of creation and destruction of particles of diverse species, namely second quantization in Fock space: rampant emergence and disappearance of particles/excitations subject to the conservation principles of the particular QFT, here conservation of baryon and lepton numbers, charge, etc. With the above reference, Fermi really opened the conceptual floodgates.

