Q:

Help translate from German a quote by Hermann Weyl in Space Time Matter

I would like to find an accurate translation to the following quote from Space Time Matter:

Man muß gegen diese Orgien des Formalismus, mit dem man heute sogar die Techniker zu belästigen beginnt, nachdrücklich protestieren.

Google translate gives:
It is necessary to vigorously protest against the orgies of formalism with which even today the technicians begin to bother.
Henry L. Brose's 1922 English translation reads:
An emphatic protest must be entered against these orgies of formalism which are threatening the peace of even the technical scientist.
My questions are:
What is a "technical scientist"? Does he mean "professional"?  Or someone who has a strong technique?
Does "even" apply to "today" (i.e. mean "already") or "technical scientist"?
Does it really say "threatening the peace"?

A:

One must firmly protest these orgies of a formalism with which even technicians are getting harassed today.

(Literally: of the formalism, with which one is beginning to harass even technicians today.)To your questions:
1) Techniker is for technicians, engineers, graduates of the Technische Hochschule where Weyl gave these lectures, as opposed to scientists or graduates of the University. Applied, not pure.
2) sogar definitely applies to Techniker, not to heute.
3) belästigen =
harass,
molest,
bother,
annoy,
irritate,
badger,
pester,
trouble,
importune,
persecute.

Note added:
Weyl’s words sound like a veiled attack on F. Klein’s preface to Schouten’s Affinoranalysis (1914) and its 19+ operations on affinors, deviators, septors, nonors, etc.:

Dr. J. A. Schouten was active so far in Rotterdam as an electrical engineer (Elektrotechniker), and got on his own from electrotechnical problems to the theories he outlines in what follows.
The point is to investigate the geometrical quantities that arise in vector analysis and the Gibbs dyads, triads, etc., on the basis of a group theoretical principle I established long ago: that all geometry is invariant theory under a group, which however one has much latitude in choosing.
Mr. Schouten’s investigations are all the more welcome, that it is the first time the developments in question, which alone seem to lead to a rational division of geometrical structures, are taken up by a practitioner. Mr. Schouten’s main achievement is that he consistently implements the principle even in higher cases. Of course, some of the resulting higher-order structures already appeared now and then in mechanics and physics, but they had not yet been enumerated in such systematic completeness as is the case here.

Wikipedia even claims that Weyl’s quote targets this book explicitly. However, this seems to rely on overinterpretation by Reich (1994, p. 157) of an ill-captioned picture in Rowe (1989a, p. 17; 1989b): Struik (1971, p. 2) merely writes that “Schouten later realized that Weyl’s critique of “orgies of formalism” was also applicable to this book” — and Klein also promoted Theory of Screws (1900) or Geometrie der Dynamen (1903), among others.

A:

One has to object thoroughly to the orgies of formalism, with which recently even technicians have been bothered.

Man muß ... protestieren -> One has to object to (in the context of legislative elements like mandatory paperwork)
nachdrücklich -> thoroughly (or intensely, not just a little)
man heute ... zu belästigen beginnt -> with which recently ... have been bothered (this translation lacks the continuation element that '...en beginnt' has, but I think it matches the intend better, also note that the original uses a different grammatical form that I omitted for better readability)
sogar die Techniker -> even the technicians (most likely not scientists but applied craftsmen, even if they have studied)

I found it interesting that there is a 'dem' not a 'denen', so the objection is not against the amount of formalism (so not against the orgies of) but against the formalism at all.

