Q:

Examples of when the professional scientists or mathematicians were wrong, but the nonprofessionals were right

What are the most glaring examples — if any — of when the professional scientists or mathematicians were wrong, but the nonprofessionals were right?

A:

It seems ball lightning was disbelieved by scientists until around 1960.  See Wikipedia .  
I knew a geologist who told us how his eye-witness account of ball lightning had been ridiculed.  He had learned not to mention it when he interviewed for jobs as a professor of geology.

A:

In 1726's Gulliver's Travels, Jonathan Swift mocked the learned scientists of Britain for not having solved the Longitude problem:  Figure out a way to keep track of one's east-west location to within a mile after making a round-trip across the Atlantic.  This was one of the most important scientific challenges of the 18th century.  The British Parliament had an outstanding offer of £ 20,000 for a solution, and had trusted the astronomers at the Royal Observatory with awarding the prize.  The prize was worth several times the modern-day Nobel Prize, and was famous at the time.
In 1731, a watchmaker named John Harrison solved the problem.  The astronomers at the Observatory refused to believe him.  Over the next 40 years, Harrison steadily refined his solution, but the astronomers never did award him the prize.  It took an act of Parliament in 1773 before Harrison was finally given his prize, and east-west navigation could be made safe.

A:

This isn't a topic I'm familiar with, just something I've read on Quanta, but according to this article, Richard Kershner of Johns Hopkins claimed to have a complete classification of convex pentagon tilings in 1968, though he notably said that "The proof that the list in Theorems 1 and 2 is complete is extremely laborious and will be given elsewhere" and that "a complete proof would require a rather large book".
However, after Martin Gardner talked about this claim in his column in Scientific American in 1975, it got to Marjorie Rice, a California housewife with a high school math education, who found four additional families, and Richard James, a computer programmer, who found another. Eventually, Michael Rao proved that there were exactly 15. You can read more about Rice in this article by the same author.
Admittedly, this is an instance of a single professional mathematician making a false claim without giving a proof, which mathematicians consider poor form, and a nonprofessional correcting him, rather than the general mathematics community being wrong.

