Q:

When were numbers first used for anything other than counting?

The most obvious occurrence of numbers in nature are the counting (natural) numbers, as they describe how many of something there are. It took a long time for people to even realize that the numbers extended to zero and the non-integers, and even longer for negative numbers, complex numbers, etc.
So if I'm correct in my assumption that numbers arose from people's need to count objects, what is the first recorded instance of numbers being used for any purpose other than counting objects? I'm guessing it was for establishing the geometrical concepts of length and area, but where and when did this first take place?

A:

According to the legend, at some time in VI century BC Pythagoras visited a smith shop
and discovered that musical intervals correspond to simple ratios of small numbers.
This discovery impressed Pythagoras so much that he concluded that "universe is ruled by numbers". On my opinion, this can be considered the "birth of exact sciences".
Unfortunately, this legend comes from the authors who lived many centuries after
Pythagoras and their accounts of what really happened in the smith shop are incorrect.
(They did not really understand what they were talking about).
Nevertheless we know that this discovery was made at some time very long ago, and this is reflected in the legend.
This is certainly a use of numbers "different from counting".
I am not sure that measuring
length belongs to this category. At some later time, in V BC century, followers of
Pythagoras made a fundamental and disturbing discovery that you cannot measure length with
numbers. (In modern language: that the diagonal of a square is not commensurable with the side). This discovery led to a crisis not only in mathematics but in the whole worldview
that "numbers rule the world". The crisis was resolved at the time of Euclid
(III BC) in whose book we read "the theory of proportions" which is equivalent to the modern
theory of real numbers, but exposed in purely geometric language.
Theory of proportions was used until 19 century.
Notice for example, that Newton (and many physics books) do not state the gravity law
or the second law of Newton or Hooke's law as a relation  between numbers. 
They do not say that force equals to the product of such and such things divided
by such and such things. They only say that something is "proportional" to something. This is a remainder of that epoch which still exists in some physics books.
Modern rigorous theories of real (and complex and other) numbers was created in the second
half of 19-th century. They are certainly not designed for counting but for measuring.
Certainly people used numbers for measuring in practice since the times immemorial, without any theory.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagorean_hammers

A:

At least for the ancient Greek world, we can see the Pythagorean idea of the tetractys, the triangular figure made of pebbles, ordered in four rows to form a triangle, which add up to the perfect number ten.
See :

Walter Burkert, Lore and Science in Ancient Pythagoreanism (1972, German ed : 1962), page 72 :

The kernel of pythagorean wisdom is the "tetractys", or "four-group", made up of the numbers $1,2,3,4$ which add uo to $10$. They are representen in a pebble figure, in the form of a "perfect triangle".

It is clearly a way of conceiving of numbers as "real" objects with their own properties, and not only as a "counting device".

