Q:

Mathematics development can sometimes **exceed** the practical needs, right?

I read below paragraph from the book "A Friendly Introduction to Number Theory":

The use of "$i$" to denote the square root of negative $1$ dates back to
  the days when people viewed such numbers with great suspicion and,
  indeed, felt that they were so far fom being real numbers that they
  deserved to be called imaginar. In these more enlightened times we
  recognize that all1 numbers are, to some extent, abstractions that can
  be used to solve certain sorts of problems. For example, negative
  numbers (which were not used by European mathematicians even in the
  fourteenth century, although they were in use in India as early as AD
  600) are not needed for counting cattle, but they are useful in
  keeping track of who owes how many cattle to whom. Fractions arise
  naturally when people start dealing with objects that can be
  subdivided, such as bushels of wheat or felds of corn. Irational
  numbers-that is, numbers that are not factions-appear in even the
  simplest sorts of measurements, as the Pythagoreans discovered when
  they found that the diagonal of certain geometric fgures may be
  incommensurable with their sides.

And...

...but even if we introduce more general irational numbers, we still
  won't be able to solve the very simple equation $x^2 + 1 = 0$. Since this
  equation doesn't have any solutions in "real numbers," there's nothing
  to stop us fom creating a new sort of number to be a solution and
  giving that new number the name i. This is no diﬀerent fom observing
  that since the equation $x^2 - 5 = 0$ has no solution in factions, we are
  fee to create a solution and call it $J$. In fact, we're even doing the
  same thing when we observe that $3x - 7 = 0$ has no solutions in whole
  numbers, so we create a solution and call it $i$.

As I recall from other readings, when people invented the complex number, it merely served as a bizarre way to solve some hard equations. There was no practical/massive application of such invention until years later in the electrical engineering, communication and other physics areas. 
So it gives me an impression that mathematics development can sometimes exceed the practical needs. Some currently seemingly bizarre solutions/operations look that way only because a proper context just haven't revealed itself yet.
Is my understanding sound?

A:

Yes, this happens many times.  Mathematics developed purely for internal mathematical reasons, later turns out to have applications elsewhere.
See the essay by Wigner, "The unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics in the natural sciences"
I heard many years ago a lecture by Heisenberg.  He told how, in finding the first things about quantum mechanics, he came up with a strange sort of multiplication, which was not commutative.  When he told a mathematician, he got the reply, "Oh, yes.  That is called matrix multiplication.  It was intruduced by Cayley a hundred years ago."

A:

It is well known when and why complex numbers were introduced. When you solve a cubic equation which has 3 real roots, using Cardano's formula, you obtain square roots of negative numbers in your formula, so to obtain the correct result you have to do arithmetic with complex numbers.
Of course, when Cardano's formula was discovered, it had no practical application
(and perhaps has no practical application to this day). But complex numbers are important in many modern applications. Mathematicians invent things very much ahead of time, if we are speaking of applications. 

