Q:

Why is the claim that $\pi$ contains all natural numbers thought by the general public to be proven, despite it being conjecture currently?

We've all heard the popular claim that the expansion of $\pi$ contains every natural number; however, as we can see from numerous sources,  such as Mathematics Stack Exchange and Wikipedia, it is often stated emphatically by those in the know that this is only a conjecture.
My question is:

When did this claim become popular? Why?

Thoughts:
I have no clue why. Maybe a pop-maths author misstated the fact that it's a conjecture and the misunderstanding stuck.
I know most mathematicians believe it to be true and that the conjecture has been around for decades, but the popular understanding seems to be that it is proven.
Context:
I'm a Mathematics PhD student. I want to understand the origin of this common notion because, due to its traction, some folk I know have a hard time believing me when I say it's only a conjecture.

A:

People without mathematical training have many mistaken beliefs. (Students studying higher math develop mistaken beliefs too, but on a higher level: see here).
It is natural to think every non-periodic pattern of digits contains all possible finite strings of digits. (Forget that it is trivial to give a counterexample when you know enough math.) This is a plausible reason people think the digits of pi contain all finite patterns, and it is not realistic to think this common misunderstanding can be traced back to a specific source.
On the other hand, the quasi-popular confusion (or even awareness) about $1+2+3+\cdots = -1/12$ in recent years has a definite cause: the ridiculous Numberphile video on that result. It is the only awful Numberphile video, in my opinion.
The math stackexchange page here will give you other settings where a false result has large first counterexamples, which might help folks you know better appreciate that a finite amount of numerical data can’t prove a result about an infinite set (like all finite strings of digits).

