Q:

On the choice of Earth circumference vs diameter to define the meter

I think this is the appropriate SE to ask about the following, but feel free to tell me otherwise.
As I remember it, the meter is a "human" or "natural" length, because it was choosen to be exactly 1/40000th of Earth's circumference.
A few minutes ago, I was thinking about the centimeter and how unnatural it is. It is quite small and even though I am French, I think the centimeter does not come naturally as a unit of measurement.
Anyway, I had this idea. What if the meter had been defined based on the diameter of the planet instead of its circumference?
I had a strange intuition about this.
Anyway, if the circumference is taken to be exactly 40000 meters (real circumference is slightly longer), diameter is 40000 divided by pi, i.e. 12732.39 meters.
And now, let say I use this diameter to define my new meter. For example, I could say the diameter is exactly 10000 new meters.
That would make the new centimeter slightly longer, i.e. 1.2732 centimeter.
And I find this VERY intriguing because, if I simply multiply this by 2, I get 2.54 centimeters which is... an inch!
Is this a mere coincidence or was the circumference choosen over the diameter on purpose to avoid getting back to the imperial system?
Edit: Jean Picard determined Earth radius in 1669. So for the ones arguing it was obvious to use the circumference, as obvious as anything looked in retrospect, I need better arguments.

A:

If one decides to choose some measurement of the Earth as a standard of length, circumference
has one serious advantage: it is easier to measure directly.
The Earth is not an exact sphere. And the meter was originally defined as 1/40,000
of Paris meridian (not of the equator, not of some other meridian). And this meridian was carefully measured. How would you propose to measure a "diameter"?
Which diameter? The distance, say from Paris to the antipodal point by a straight line through the Earth? How would you measure this?
Speaking of what units are "human" or convenient is a matter of opinion.
Americans think that old British are "human" and convenient, other people, including the British think otherwise.
And that 4/$\pi$ is approximately 1/2 inches in centimeters is a pure coincidence, of course. The ratio of inch to centimeter has no relation to $\pi$.

