Q:

Earth's and Sun's rotation in the Ptolemaic world

In Ptolemy's geocentric model the Sun travels through the ecliptic and around the Earth once every 24 hours and the Earth does not rotate about its axis. What is Ptolemy referring to when he talks about the Sun's position during the year? How did he reconcile the Sun's eccentric orbit (giving rise to different length seasons) with the fact that the Sun rotated around the Earth every 24hrs?

A:

In Ptolemy system, there is a sphere of fixed stars which rotates about the Earth with constant speed 1 rotation per 24 hours. This rotation is about the axis which passes through the North and South pole. The poles are fixed with respect to the stars, and the great circle equidistant from the poles is the (celestial) equator. (Well, almost fixed, see below about precession).
All other motions in the sky are referred to this sphere of fixed stars. (So mathematically it is completely equivalent to diurnal rotation of the Earth).
Sun moves on the ecliptic, which is the great circle (fixed in the sphere of fixed stars) which is inclined to the equator. The period of this rotation is 1 year, and it is slightly non-uniform ("inequality of the Sun").
This theory gives a perfect account of the seasons which is essentially the same as our modern explanation. (Contrary to what @Conifold says in his comment). Ecliptic intersects
the equator at two points which are called the Spring and Autumn equinoxes. In the middles of the corresponding arcs
of the ecliptic there are two points at the greatest distance from equator. They are called the winter and summer solstices. The seasons are the intervals between
these 4 points. It is an early discovery (before Hipparchus) that the seasons have unequal lengths. The conclusion is that the motion of the sun along the ecliptic is slightly non-uniform. This was called the Inequality of the Sun, and it corresponds in modern astronomy to the first and second Kepler's laws).
So it is hotter in summer, because a) the rays of the sun hit the Earth under bigger angle, and b) the days are longer).
In addition to this, the position of the equator (and thus of the poles) with respect to the stars and ecliptic is not exactly fixed; the points of  equinoxes move with the period roughly 1 degree per century. This motion is called precession.
(This is an ancient estimate, modern speed of precession is 1 deg per 71.6 years).
This is a more or less complete description of the Ptolemy's theory about Earth and Sun. Mathematically it is EQUIVALENT to the modern description. The difference between Ptolemy's and Kepler's description only concerns
the motion of the Moon and planets.
Another difference, between the "Sun inequality" and the first two Kepler laws, is so small that it was undistinguishable for the accuracy of observations
18th century. For planets, Ptolemy theory also gives very good results. The inadequacy of his description was only detected in the end of 16th century as a result of improvement of observation accuracy (of Tycho Brahe). The most difficult case is that of the Moon. There was a continuous progress in describing the Moon motion since Ptolemy to the beginning of 20th century when a theory consistent with all observations was finally achieved.

