Q:

Reference for history of physics with description of mathematical models

I am interested in some reference text, for example, textbook that would describe going from old times (say, Greece) till modern times:
1) definitions of units and measurements 
2) describing experiments to motivate models like Newton's first law, Faraday's law
3) describing predictions made by models and what things it predicts right and which experiments show that, and what things it predicts wrong and which experiments show that.
Of course, it might be possible that such text does not exist, but I would be happy to see some kind of subset of the things I described.
I found many great historical books but most of them skip on the mathematical part by which I mean - let us take this specific idea (let's say equation), and find a prediction, and see that it works/fails in these experiments. Instead, usually, either the equation is just stated, or some results are just being told without specifically saying how that corresponds/agrees/disagrees with specific models of that time. 
Of course, it might be possible that such text does not exist, but I would be happy to see some kind of subset of the things I described.

A:

I would recommend

René Dugas, A History of Mechanics, trans. John Royden Maddox.

GoodReads reviews
Monumental study traces the history of mechanical principles chronologically from their earliest roots in antiquity through the Middle Ages to the revolutions in relativistic mechanics and wave and quantum mechanics of the early 20th century. Contributions of ancient Greeks, Leonardo, Galileo, Kepler, Lagrange, many other important figures. 116 black-and-white illustrations.

It starts with Hellenistic mechanics and ends with quantum mechanics.
For electromagnetism:

E. T. Whittaker, A History of the Theories of Aether & Electricity, 1910.

For thermodynamics:

Clifford Ambrose Truesdell, The Tragicomical History of Thermodynamics, 1822-1854 (New York, NY: Springer New York, 1980).

