Q:

Ancient Egyptian geometry

When reading on the topic of Ancient Egyptian geometry by Ancient Greek philosophers, there is a certain sense that this is quite a thriving discipline that seems comparable to the type of geometry done in Greece at that time.  E.g., Diogenes Laertius' Lives of Eminent Philosophers :

And Pamphile relates that he, having learnt geometry from the Egyptians, was the first person to describe a right-angled triangle in a circle, and that he sacrificed an ox in honour of his discovery

or Clement of Alexandria' Stromata

"I have roamed over the most ground of any man of my time, investigating the most remote parts. I have seen the most skies and lands, and I have heard of learned men in very great numbers. And in composition no one has surpassed me; in demonstration, not even those among the Egyptians who are called Arpenodaptae, with all of whom I lived in exile up to eighty years."

or in Iamblichus' Life of Pythagoras :

But it is said that he very much applied himself to geometry among the Egyptians. For with the Egyptians there are many geometrical problems; since it is necessary that from remote periods, and from the time of the Gods themselves,[38] on account of the increments and decrements of the Nile, those that were skilful should have measured all the Egyptian land which they cultivated. Hence also geometry derived its name. Neither did they negligently investigate the theory of the celestial orbs, in which likewise Pythagoras was skilled. Moreover, all the theorems about lines appear to have been derived from thence.

This seems to give the impression of some geometry (and astronomy) with some theory behind it, and from various other quotes, partly done by the priestly class.
However, the actual geometry that seems to exist in surviving documents like the Rhind papyrus or the Moscow papyrus, seem to be fairly utilitarian texts on the topic, being mostly either scribal exercises or practical computations, which do not seem to have much hints of such things.
Am I perhaps overinterpreting what is said in those sources? Are there any other documents which would be more in line with this interpretation? Is it maybe just that such documents did not survive at all, or were not even written down? Or is it maybe even the case that most of these are legendary, as many of these texts are written much after the period in question was concerned (from around 600 BCE to 300 BCE)?

A:

Greek writers of Hellenistic times indeed had a tendency to
claim that mathematics and astronomy came to Greece from Egypt. This has no conformation whatsoever. Modern studies show that mathematics and astronomy in Egypt were in very primitive state, in comparison with Mesopotamia and Greece.
On the other hand, these Hellenistic sources do not mention Mesopotamia (Babylon), while there are documented cases of
transfer of important scientific knowledge from Babylon to Greece. Notice that all those Hellenistic authors who claim
that there was a substantial influence of Egyptian mathematics/astronomy are not mathematicians or astronomers themselves, so they probably did not understand the subject.
The reason of this confusion is unclear.
As an example, all Hellenistic sources tell us that Thales traveled to Egypt to learn mathematics. On the other hand these same sources say that Thales surprised Egyptian priests when he showed them how to measure the height of a pyramid.
Modern historian comments: "And what could these priests possibly teach Thales?"
Hellenistic historians never mention any specific important contribution of Egyptians to mathematics or astronomy. Just the general statements that founders of Greek exact sciences, Thales and Pythagoras "traveled to Egypt to learn the wisdom of Egyptian priests". What could they possibly learn there remains a mystery.
Ptolemy, an astronomer who worked in Egypt at the time
of the Roman empire, and whose works are our principal source of knowledge about ancient astronomy, frequently refers to Babylonians and never on Egyptians.
References:
O. Neugebauer, The exact sciences in antiquity,
O. Neugebauer, A history of ancient mathematical astronomy,
B. L. Van der Waerden, Science awakening.
This last book discusses exactly this question: "What could Greeks learn from Egyptians?" in the last section of Chapter I. The author mentions other opinions on the question as well.

