Q:

What was the reason for the immense progress of mathematics in 18th century?

The 18th century had sought a huge, immense progress in mathematics. As late as 17th century people still wrote algebraic equations with words. But by the end of 18th century we had

Mathematical analysis and theory of differential equations
Complex numbers fully formalized and the connection between trigonometric and hyperbolic functions discovered
Gamma and Zeta functions discovered and described
Calculus of variations
Theory of graphs
Probability theory and combinatorics

etc etc. 
It seems that the most of mathematics that could be used in today's engineering applications was developed in 18th century. Neither 19th nor 20th century had saught such a major breakthrough despite the rise of industry, technology and appearance of computers.
I wonder what was the drive behind these successes in mathematics at a century when it would not be expected to find a lot of applications.
Was it indeed driven by the needs of industry, military and technological progress?
Or was it developed as a form of amusement because some nobility had a lot of spare time?
Or was it due to personality traits of some of government leaders who sponsored mathematics and made it a very prestigious profession of the time?

A:

One can easily name one main intrinsic reason: invention of Calculus in the very end of the previous century, and "invention of mathematical physics" by Newton.
It happened in the very beginning of 18-s century that sufficiently many people suddenly realized that mathematics can effectively explain the world.
But of course, there were also outside reasons, like development of industry and capitalism. That is people were interested in the explanation of the world.
By "invention of physics" I mean rigorous formulation of principal laws of mechanics and explanation of Kepler laws, explanation of tides, explanation of the shape of the Earth. All this was shortly confirmed by measurements, and these discoveries made an enormous impression. For the first time it was evident to many people that mathematics can really explain the world.
On the other hand, the external reasons were also important: people ( also kings and governments) were really INTERESTED in these questions, they payed for expeditions to check the true shape of the Earth and built observatories to observe stars and planets. They were interested in supporting mathematicians and several well payed jobs appeared.
Laws of motions of stars and planets had one important application at that time: to navigation. And reliable navigation was important for overseas trade
and functioning of the navies. Another very important application
was military science (gunnery and fortification).
True industrial applications of mathematics
came a bit later. 
But people were so very much impressed by physics and calculus that they immediately started applying mathematics literally everywhere, not always with success, initially. For example, D. Bernoulli developed his famous laws of hydrodynamics trying to model the blood flow in the blood vessels. This could not give interesting results in 18s century, but the laws of hydrodynamics were created. Similarly, Euler wrote a lot about interior ballistics and shipbuilding. It was too early for any success in such complicated things. But this shows how great was enthusiasm about applications of mathematics they had at that time.

