Q:

Who invented the steam engine: Newcomen or Watt?

The steam engine was one of the main enabling technologies of the industrial revolution.
Many histories of the Industrial Revolution chart the steam engine's rise with James Watt. However, Thomas Newcomen is often credited with inventing the steam engine. So who did it?

A:

Both Newcomen and Watt invented 'steam' engines. Both operated by injecting steam into a cylinder, moving a piston in the cylinder.
Newcomen's engine is often described as a steam engine but the steam pressure is not really performing the work.
Instead, the steam is condensed (by injecting a small amount of water) to produce a partial vacuum. This partial 
vacuum pulls the piston (to perform work).
Newcomen's design was actually an incremental improvement of a thermic syphon designed by Thomas Savery.
Newcomen added a piston into the vacuum container (/cylinder), and used a rocking beam to operate the pump mechanism (most Newcomen engines were used as water pumps for mines).
Watt realized that the condensing arrangement was very inefficient because most of the heat was used heating the 
cylinder which was then cooled during the condensing stage.
Although thermodynamics was at a very primitive stage, Watt realised the importance of latent heat during this condensing process.
 He operated the cylinder at steam temperature with a
steam jacket, and moved the condensing stage out of the cylinder. 
The piston was now operated by steam being admitted into 
the cylinder. Although initial steam pressures were not much higher, this was significantly more efficient than the Newcomen arrangement.
As technology improved and safety valves were invented (and improved!), pressures increased for greater power and efficiency: early 
steam locomotives (early 19th century) often operated at or below 50psi, whilst 200-250psi was common during the 20th 
century.
Watt initially had a lot of trouble getting his designs to work. The primary problem was the creation of a large cylinder with a steam-tight piston. This was eventually solved by partnering with Boulton. Boulton also introduced the idea of converting the reciprocating beam motion into a rotating wheel motion - suitable for use in mills.
Further Information

A wonderful animated Newcomen engine and explanation
Further information including survivors and Smeaton's famous Royal Society drawing of a Newcomen Engine
Description of a surviving Watt Engine at the Henry Ford Museum
Wikipedia Page for the Watt Engine

