Q:

Has there ever been a case where someone wished a theorem or important result wasn't named after them? Has it happened more than once?

The current answers to the Academia HNQ Should I ask for permission to name a mathematical theorem? include the following (small excerpts):

There is no need to ask permission, and mostly likely they will be happy to have the theorem referred to with their names.

and

I suppose there is no formal need to ask for permission, but

I see no harm in doing so.
I see the potential for harm in not doing so.

The first can be loosely paraphrased as "go for it" and "it would be bad if you didn't" but the second seems like excellent advice.
I thought I'd ask here if there are any examples that might inspire words of caution as expressed in the 2nd answer, so I'd like to ask:
Question: Has there ever been a case where someone wished a theorem or important result wasn't named after them? Has it happened more than once?

A:

On the Löwenheim–Skolem theorem:

It is somewhat ironic that Skolem's name is connected with the upward direction of the theorem as well as with the downward direction:
"I follow custom in calling Corollary 6.1.4 the upward Löwenheim-Skolem theorem. But in fact Skolem didn't even believe it, because he didn't believe in the existence of uncountable sets." – Hodges (1993).
"Skolem [...] rejected the result as meaningless; Tarski [...] very reasonably responded that Skolem's formalist viewpoint ought to reckon the downward Löwenheim-Skolem theorem meaningless just like the upward." – Hodges (1993).
"Legend has it that Thoralf Skolem, up until the end of his life, was scandalized by the association of his name to a result of this type, which he considered an absurdity, nondenumerable sets being, for him, fictions without real existence." – Poizat (2000).

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%B6wenheim%E2%80%93Skolem_theorem#Historical_notes

A:

According to a recent episode of PBS Space Time, Freeman Dyson "regretted" the Dyson Sphere being named after him.
According to the Wikipedia article

Dyson was not the first to advance this idea. He was inspired by the 1937 science fiction novel Star Maker, by Olaf Stapledon,...

The PBS episode states that Dyson referred to the concept as the Stapledon Sphere as Dyson was trying to "avoid having his own name attached to the idea".

A:

I cannot easily document the chatter about it, but G. ("Beppo", for "Giuseppe") Levi in 1906 used what we'd now call a "Sobolev space", to prove an actual (=true) minimum principle for certain vector spaces of functions. (Thus, actually giving a true, and, mercifully, sufficient version of "Dirichlet's principle" (about existence and uniqueness of a maximizing vector...) for most applications.)
The story I'd heard is that "the French" referred to such spaces (in French) as "the spaces of Beppo Levi", and pronounced in such a way that was somehow degrading to Levi.
Apparently, Levi objected to this... and, since the rest of Levi's life he worked on other things, his name was removed from such reference, and now it's "Sobolev spaces". There are various pseudo-historical accounts of how Sobolev came to agree to that renaming, etc. I cannot vouch for any of that, etc.

