Q:

What's the true story about Galilei?

Scientists use the story of Galilei to advocate the glory of the sciences and the stupidity of the church. This is obvious from ironic remarks made by them that criticize its attitude. In fact, this is exactly the same attitude to the church as the church had towards the science of the heavens (that is, the heliocentric view). The difference being though that the church was rational in it's attitude. So they were not exactly the same.
Gallilei is idolized and given the status of a hero. The hero of science who dared to fight against the irrational views of the church in the name of Reason and Enlightment.
But what is true of all the stories? Was he thrown in jail? Ot maybe something worse? Did he believe in God himself?
Incidentally, Galileo Galilei is called Galilei in Holland. I don't know about other countries but it could be they call him Galileo there.

A:

As Mauro Allegranza mentioned, the literature is enormous. To put it short, Galileo was censored. He was given a warning not to advocate Copernican theory as an established fact but was permitted to discuss it as a mathematical hypothesis. (The main reason was that the Bible contains a sentence which seems to imply that Sun rotates around the Earth. Galileo dared to propose his own interpretation of this sentence. But interpretation of the Bible was strictly the prerogative of the Church.)
He violated this warning, and published a book for a broad audience, where some passages could be interpreted as a ridicule of the arguments stated by the Pope himself.
Then he was summoned to Rome, and forced to abdicate his views (under the threat of torture, and worse). He publicly abdicated, and after that was kept under some kind of home arrest.
He lived with a friend, and was prohibited to travel or to publish anything on the topic. Copernicus book was banned. Notice that it was banned 74 years after publication, and only in connection with Galileo's process.
One can add, that a) Galileo's main argument "proving" revolution of the Earth was wrong (it was based on his incorrect explanation of tides), and that at that time there was no conclusive experiment which should allow to prove or disprove it. b) He was in priority conflict with some Jesuit scientists who could possibly cause his persecution, and c) There were many scientists
at that time who shared the heliocentric views, and had good relations with the church establishment. So some researchers argue that he simply provoked the Church to ban Copernicus theory. On this I can cite two sources which are critical with respect to Galileo:
A. Koestler, The sleepwalkers, and
S. Gindikin, Tales of mathematicians and physicists.
Their point of view is that Galileo unnecessarily provoked the Church.
They unfavorably compare him with his contemporary Kepler who never had any conflict with Church. (It is true that Kepler was a Protestant, but Protestants also have a record of burning heretics).
And to answer the last question: yes Galileo believed in God, and was a devote Catholic.

