Q:

Is there an etymological dictionary of terms in physics?

There are of course many physics dictionaries and glossaries and some words can be found in general etymological dictionaries and even English dictionaries; but is there a Physics Etymological Dictionary, such as there is for math?

A:

After going through so many etymological dictionaries of science (mainly chemistry & mathematics), I still feel that the unabridged Oxford Dictionary is the best. It is not available for public use but one can buy subscription for a year. Most universities have it.
There you can find the etymology for sure, the best part is that you can see the earliest use with original reference.
For example, you might wish to see who introduced the term "flavor" in particle physics?
Here is what a typical entry looks like:

Particle Physics.  [An arbitrary choice of name.] A quantized property
  of quarks which differentiates them into (at least) six varieties
  (called up and down, charmed and strange, top and bottom) and which
  can be changed by the weak interaction; an analogous property of
  leptons which differentiates the electron, the muon, the tau, and
  their respective neutrinos. Also, a quark or lepton of a particular
  flavour.
1975   Sci. Amer. Oct. 38/1   In the whimsical terminology that has
  evolved for the discussion of quarks they are said to come in four
  flavors, and each flavor is said to come in three colors. (‘Flavor’
  and ‘color’ are, of course, arbitrary labels; they have no relation to
  the usual meanings of those words.)
1975   Sci. Amer. Oct. 38/1   In the whimsical terminology that has
  evolved for the discussion of quarks they are said to come in four
  flavors, and each flavor is said to come in three colors. (‘Flavor’
  and ‘color’ are, of course, arbitrary labels; they have no relation to
  the usual meanings of those words.)
1978   Nature 2 Feb. 406/2   The quarks in the proton and neutron are
  of two varieties (or flavours), ‘up’ (u) and ‘down’ (d).
1980   Sci. Amer. July 60/1   For almost 20 years it has been well
  established that there are at least two flavors, or kinds, of
  neutrino; one flavor can appear only in association with an electron
  and the other is always created together with a muon.
1981   M. Gell-Mann in J. H. Mulvey Nature of Matter viii. 176   The
  electromagnetic and weak forces are ‘flavour forces’: the electric
  charge of a particle depends on its flavour; weak forces are flavour
  exchange forces.
1981   Sci. Amer. Feb. 65/1   A total of five flavors have definitely
  been observed (they are called up, down, strange, charm and bottom)
  and the existence of a sixth flavor (top) is all but certain.
1982   Sci. Amer. Nov. 134/1   Charm, like up, down and strange, is a
  quark flavor.
1985   Sci. Amer. Apr. 66/3   Like leptons, the quarks experience weak
  interactions that change one species, or flavor, into another.

A:

Asimov wrote one.
edit
Ooops,   he wrote  two

