Q:

Why did al-Khwarizmi use al jebr, ‘the reuniting of broken parts’ to signify algebra?

By "algebra", I'm assuming the solving of polynomial equations like every school child does. I accept that many kids loathe algebra, and that solving equations can be dreary and weariful, especially if you have to derive the Cubic Formula!
But I don't understand the diction. What are the "broken parts"? What's being reunited?

algebra [16]

Algebra symbolizes the debt of
Western culture to Arab mathematics, but
ironically when it first entered the English
language it was used as a term for the setting of
broken bones, and even sometimes for the
fractures themselves (‘The helpes of Algebra
and of dislocations’, Robert Copland, Formulary
of Guydo in surgery 1541). This reflects the
original literal meaning of the Arabic term al
jebr, ‘the reuniting of broken parts’, from the
verb jabara ‘reunite’. The anatomical
connotations of this were adopted when the
word was borrowed, as algebra, into Spanish,
Italian, and medieval Latin, from one or other of
which English acquired it. In Arabic, however, it
had long been applied to the solving of algebraic
equations (the full Arabic expression was ’ilm
aljebr wa’lmuqābalah ‘the science of reunion
and equation’, and the mathematician al-Khwarizmi used aljebr as the title of his treatise
on algebra – see ALGORITHM), and by the end of
the 16th century this was firmly established as
the central meaning of algebra in English.

Word Origins (2005 2e) by John Ayto, p 16 Left column.

A:

See Roshdi Rashed, Classical Mathematics from Al-Khwarizmi to Descartes (Routledge, 2014), page 107 [but I've not seen: R. Rashed (editor), Al-Khwārizmī: The Beginnings of Algebra (2009)]:

The term al-jabr (algebra) is indeed an Arabic term, a name for the
action of the verb (a maṣdar, according to the grammarians), the root of
which has the general meaning of rectifying or correcting something using
some form of constraint, such as setting a broken bone, for example. It is
thus an ordinary-language term that can take on multiple meanings. It was devoid of technical meaning before al-Khwārizmī for the first time gave it
a two-fold technical signification. When associated with the word almuqābala,
it designates both a discipline and an operation. The successors
of al-Khwārizmī will quickly give pride of place to the first word,
‘algebra’, to name the discipline, and derive from this single word the name
of the professional, ‘algebraist’. This usage already appears in Thābit ibn
Qurra (826–901). But this word also designates an operation: that of
‘restoring’ an equation, that is, adding to its two members the subtracted
terms. For example, in

$x^2 + c – bx = d$ where $c > d$,

the operation ‘algebra’ consists in adding $bx$ to each side,

$x^2 + c = bx + d$,

and the operation al-muqābala, that is, ‘opposition’ or ‘reduction’ amounts
to

$x^2 + (c – d) = bx$.

The point of the two related operations is to bring the equation back to
one of the canonical types that al-Khwārizmī defined a priori.

But see also: George Saliba, The Meaning of al-jabr wa'l-muqabalah (1973):

The word jabr (root jubara) has a number of meanings in ordinary
Arabic, two of which are relevant here. The first is “to reduce a fracture”,
while the second, which is more general, is “to force, to compel”. The
traditional interpretation has connected jabr with the fist meanings for
two main reasons. [...] We believe, on the contrary, that the root jabara was employed by the medieval algebraists in its second sense, “to compel”.

Hence the science al-jabr wa’l-muqabalah is the science by which one
forces the unknown to acquire certain values and checks the appropriate
value by comparing the results with the original conditions of the problem.

A:

I have also wondered about the term al-jabr which ultimately became algebra. Re Please see Solomon Gandz (1926) The Origin of the Term “Algebra”, The American Mathematical Monthly, 33:9, 437-440, DOI: 10.1080/00029890.1926.11986615.
The author proposes an alternative and exactly notes your concern that al-jabr meant joining the broken parts. Gandz states that this word is not of Arabic origin and most likely it is Assyrian word.

here are still remnants in the mathematical literature suggesting that in olden times the term al-jabr alone was used for the science of equations, and the term al-jabriyyun was taken for the masters of algebra. ${ }^{1}$ On the other hand the term al-muqabalah alone, according to its real meaning of "putting face to face, confronting, equation,' seems to be the most appropriate name for equations in general. With these difficulties in mind, the writer undertook to search out the real meaning of jabara in the related Semitic languages. Now the Assyrian name gabr\hatu-mahâru means to be equal, to correspond, to confront, or to put two things face to face; see Delitzsch, Assyrisches Handwöterbuch, under gabru and maharu, pp. $193,401,$ and Muss-Arnolt, Assyrian Dictionary, under gabru and maxaru, $^{2}$ pp. $210,525 .$ From the first of these we have the etymology of the Hebrew geber and gibbor. Geber is the mature man leaving the state of boyhood and being equal in rank and ralue to the other men of the assembly or army. Gibbôr is the hero who is strong enough to fight and overcome his equals and rivals in the hostile army. Gabara $=j$ abar $a$, in its original Assyrian meaning, is therefore the corresponding name for the Arabic qabala (verbal noun muqabalah), and an appropriate name for equations in general.
The Egyptians $^{3}$ knew and wrote books on algebra as early as 1600 B.C., and it would be very strange if the Assyrians, having the same level of culture as the Egyptians and having close political and economic relations with them, were quite ignorant of this art. Gabr must have been the original Assyrian form of the word. The Arabs received this ancient science, with its original Assyrian name (in Arabic pronunciation al-jabr) from the Aramaeans and Syrians, who lived on Assyrian territory, and added the Arabic name al-muqabalah, which is nothing else than the literal Arabic translation of $a l$ jabr. This took place many hundreds of years before Mohammed ibn Musâ al-Kowârizmi. Later on the real meaning of the word was forgotten, and the simple meaning seems not to have been regarded as scholarly enough for good usage. The scholastic method at that time was common in both the philosophical and the theological schools. The scholars tried to find in the Bible, the Koran, and the old philosophical texts everything but the simple, plain meaning. The same method was followed towards these two mathematical terms. The masters simply declared them to signify the first two operations of algebra, namely the removal of the negative and positive quantities, without worrying much about philological reasons. This conception of the two words was already well known at the time of Mohammed ibn Musâ al Khowârizmî, and the latter used the terms in the traditional way without any further explanation, as shown by both Rosen and Ruska. For more than a thousand years this scholastic interpretation prevailed in the Arabic and European worlds. In reality, however, it would seem that the expression 'Ilm al-jabr w'al-muqabalah ought to be rendered simply as Science of equations, al-jabr being the Assyrian and al-muqabalah the Arabic name for equation.

His version seems plausible.

