Q:

What language was spoken at the International Mathematical Congress?

Over the years, what language was spoken at the International Mathematical Congress? I assume it is English right now, but it was founded by two German mathematicians, so I assume the language was German once, especially since Göttingen (Germany) was the mathematical center of that time. Is this true? If so, when and why did it change form German to English? 
Note: I've written an own answer to this question lately, using the links and information others provided in answers. 

A:

The proceedings of the first congress were published as “Verhandlungen des ersten Internationalen Mathematiker- Kongresses in Zürich vom 9. bis 11. August 1897”. Most of the papers were in German, a good number were in French, and one only was in Italian. There do not seem to have been any contributions in English. At that time, professional mathematicians could be expected to understand German and French at the least.
The proceedings of this and the following congresses can be found here: http://www.mathunion.org/ICM/ICM1897/

A:

Purely on the basis of the link given, the first congress in a non English speaking location which used an English title was Amsterdam 1954. The last one which used a local-language title was Nice 1970. From Vancouver 1974 onwards, all the titles are in English. The last one to specifically use a German title was Zürich 1932.
Not that this proves anything about the lingua franca at each congress. The book "Mathematicians of the World, Unite!" by Guillermo Curbera mentions six languages including Latin that were used at the Bologna conference in 1928 (p88).
https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=9uDqBgAAQBAJ

A:

Official languages of the early congresses used to be English, French, German and Italian. Also Russian for the congress in Moscow. Since 1970s most talks are given in English but other languages are not prohibited. For example, in Beijin 2002,
plenary speaker Lafforgue was speaking in French and showing transparencies in Chinese.
(I was present at the talk).

