Q:

What major areas of mathematics have been abandoned?

It seems that the focus of mathematical research moves on every so often, and some areas are not proven wrong, but have just become uninteresting in the current mathematical culture.  I was under the impression that solutions to quartic (and high power) equations might be one of these abandoned area, but are there others? 
This question has the current areas of mathematics mapped out, but what I'm looking for would be more the changes in the map over time, and which node are excluded from the current mapping.

A:

I would say that no area of mathematics has ever been completely abandoned. The areas go in and out of fashion, but nothing seems to be completely abandoned.
For example, approximately in 1940's most mainstream mathematical journals stopped to consider papers on elementary geometry. But the area is not abandoned in any way. First of all, there are "non-mainstream" journals, second, new results in elementary geometry can be parts of the research dedicated to other subjects.
Let me give my own paper as an example:
Covering properties of meromorphic functions, negative curvature and spherical geometry, Ann. of Math. (2) 152 (2000), no. 2, 551-592,  arXiv:math/0009251.
It is published in a mainstream journal, and its main subject belongs to analysis. However the core argument in this paper is elementary-geometric, and it contains new results in elementary geometry. And in the reference list of this paper you can see some mid 19 century elementary geometry books.

A:

Geometry
I'm not sure you can really call geometry abandoned, but it certainly was much more popular a few hundred years ago (discovery of spherical geometry and hyperbolical geometry, parallel axiom debate) and a few thousand years ago (the old Greeks developed a lot of geometry). Nowadays, there are very few papers about just plain Euclidean geometry (or spherical geometry, or hyperbolical geometry, for that matter). arXiv doesn't even have a specific category for it. They do have Algebraic Geometry, Metric Geometry and Differential Geometry, but these fields are no where near just studying the properties of triangles, circles, etc, while I think there are still things to discover. It might be partially a result of having only very few open problems. 

A:

Another example is the study of configurations; its history is given in §1.2 of Branko Grünbaum's Configurations of Points and Lines, Graduate Studies in Mathematics volume 103, American Mathematical Society, 2009.
Broadly, this area of combinatorics, though not defined in full generality until 1876 by Theodor Reye, encompasses work of Pappus and Desargues.  Other names associated with work up to 1910 include Möbius, Cayley, Burnside, and Steinitz.  Then there was a "dark ages" until 1990 when Grünbaum and others reinvigorated the field.  (I was fortunate to attend a topics class he taught on this material at the University of Washington in the early 1990s.)  It is now an active area of research.
By the way, there is a statement about configurations from Hilbert & Cohn-Vossen's Geometry and the Imagination that Grünbaum considers an overstatement:
H & C-V: "...there was a time when the study of configurations was considered the most important branch of geometry."
G: "The author would like to conjecture that this is the greatest exaggeration of the truth that can be found in any of Hilbert's writings.  While it is a fact that---as mentioned above---in the "classical period" of the history of configurations there were quite a few people interested in the topic, configurations were never a central topic of mathematical (or geometric) research."

