Q:

Pythagoras vs. the idea of Pythagoras

Maybe we need some replies on current scholarly thinking.
(Judging from some replies here, many of us are still using the myths current 100 years ago.)
Is it true (as I have heard) that most, if not all, of the things attributed to Pythagoras and the Pythagoreans were, in fact, due instead to someone in Plato's school?  Someone who promulgated these ideas many years later, adding the attribution of "Pythagoras" (a famous personage of the remote past) in order to lend credence to them?
And, if so, what are some good things to read about this?

A:

Yes the stories of Pythagoras that were common a few decades ago have all been been disproved, largely by Walter Burkert in Lore and Science in Ancient Pythagoreanism (1972).  In short, Pythagoras never thought about any of the mathematics attributed to him.  Consequently he gave no mathematical theory of music, never said all is number, and never contemplated a harmony of the planets.   
The place to start reading about this is Burnyeat's concise review of later lighter books, including Pythagoras and the Pythagoreans: A Brief History by Charles Kahn.  The review is linked by Gerald Edgar,  http://www.lrb.co.uk/v29/n04/mf-burnyeat/other-lives. Burnyeat bases his review on Burkert's book. Since then Leonid Zhmud has urged the opposite, saying Pythagoras did pursue mathematics.  But the review at https://web.archive.org/web/20141018100000/http://bmcr.brynmawr.edu/2014/2014-08-30.html shows Zhmud also attributes essentially all  of the specific traditionally Pythagorean mathematics to later Pythagoreans, not to Pythagoras himself, and the review shows problems within Zhmud's argument.
I do not entirely trust any current attempt to find how the mathematics was produced, but the other thing to read is David Fowler's book The Mathematics of Plato's Academy (1987).
The books by Burkert and Fowler are no light reading.  

A:

I'd like to present my point of view on the history of Greek mathematics from  Thales to Euclid, which differs from Colin's. 
What we know about Greek mathematics we have learnt from sources
that were written after 300 BC, and of course we do not have any
originals but copies of copies of copies. In particular, everything
we seem to know about Thales or Pythagoras is second hand knowledge
coming from histories composed at least 200 years after their death.
Just because legends about Pythagoras have been embellished a few
centuries later does not mean, however, that there is no substance 
to these legends at all. 
This means that there are many possible interpretations, all of which are more or less compatible with the "facts". The two extreme positions are held by
Burkert, who views Pythagoras as some kind of medicine man, and e.g.
by Zhmud (Pythagoras as a mathematician). Just because they are 
extreme does not mean that they must be wrong, or that the truth lies
somewhere in between. But there is certainly not an unanimous opinion 
concerning the "historical truth". For a balanced view (whatever that 
means) one may consult Kahn's book "Pythagoras and the Pythagoreans".
In my opinion, honesty requires using the phrase "we do not know for certain" a lot more often than did historians in the last century. There is an "ignoramus" in history of mathematics, and unless someone comes up with a time machine, there also is an "ignorabimus".

