Q:

Did Kronecker attribute immutable origin to the integers?

The familiar quote is often incorrectly attributed to Kronecker directly. Actually a colleague of his named Weber claimed after Kronecker's death that Kronecker said this. I have doubts about this because Kronecker would not have used the term "integer".  He was almost as suspicious of the negative numbers as he was of transcendental numbers. Furthermore he specifically wrote that the numbers are a creation of the human mind, implying a measure of contingency not conveyed by Weber's quote at all.
Note. Thanks to Colin McLarty for providing the appropriate quote, this one literally from Kronecker.

A:

Weber was a pretty reliable witness.  Probably Kronecker did tell the 1886 Berliner Naturforscher-Versammlung something like "the whole numbers were made by dear God (der liebe Gott), the rest is the work of man."  
But Kronecker also published his endorsement of Gauss saying the opposite:  

The principal difference between geometry and mechanics on one hand,
  and the other mathematical disciplines we comprehend under the name of
  \arithmetic, consists according to Gauss in this: the object of the
  latter, number, is a pure product of our mind, while space as well as
  time has reality also outside of our mind which we cannot fully
  prescribe a priori. (Kronecker, Uber den Zahlbegriff, 1887, p. 339)

It is extremely unlikely that Kronecker or Weber intended the remark as anything serious about theology.  
The late Walter Felscher has pointed out on the list HistoriaMatematica (26 May 1999)  archived at mathforum.org that:

"Lieber Gott" is a colloquial phrase usually used only when speaking
  to children or illiterati.  Addressing grown-ups with it contains a
  taste of being unserious, if not condescending. . . ; no priest,
  pastor, theologian or philosopher would use it when expressing himself
  seriously. There is the well known joke of Helmut Hasse who, having
  quoted Kronecker's dictum on page 1 of his yellow Vorlesungen uber
  Zahlentheorie (1950), added to the index of names at the book's end
  under the letter L the entry" Lieber Gott p. 1."

Kronecker did seriously aim to replace the algebra of irrational numbers with the "pure arithmetic" of natural number polynomials.
As to mutability and contingency, there seem to be two questions: Would numbers exist if people (or God) had not thought of them?  Could some other version of numbers have been created instead of the ones we have?  I know no evidence that Kronecker ever considered either question -- or that he did not!  
As to the second, compare Dedekind.  He was explicit that the natural and real numbers are both our thought-creations yet he never breathed a word of any idea that we could have created them differently than we did. 

A:

It seems Kronecker actually said

Die ganzen Zahlen hat der liebe Gott gemacht, alles andere ist Menschenwerk  

and did not mention "integers" or any other English word.
citation ... Speech at the Berlin meeting of the Society of German Scientists and Doctors in 1886, quoted by Weber in Jahresbericht der Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung 2 (1893), p. 19.

