Q:

First to realize that seasons were reversed above and below the equator?

I assume this conclusion was hard to make empirically in the days of slow travel -- one could not as we can today fly from above the equator to below it and observe the difference in weather and even if one could, it would be hard to attribute this to a single cause as weather is very changeable.
I further assume some ancient understood the thing about the Earth being tilted on its access but even to me (not an astronomer or even very sharp mentally) it is far from obvious that this would affect the seasons -- I do think that only if one accepts Heliocentrism that this phenomenon can be accounted for.
Is it then possible that no one in western Europe in, say, 1500 believed that seasons were reversed and could explain it. I do not know what Indians or Chinese knew about this.
EDIT: I realized that a ship sailing south enough would still know what date it was and people might well note that it was colder or warmer than the same month where they came from. They might attribute this to local weather but if the differences were pronounced enough, at different longitudes, someone might suggest that indeed seasons were reversed without understanding why.

A:

In the Purgatorio (c.1310) Dante places Mount Purgatory at the antipodes of Jerusalem and follows the rules of hard SF by thinking out all the consequences.
Longitude and time zones - this may be the first time in literature that someone has realised that 180° in longitude means 12 hours of time zone (he also has time zones for Rome and the Ganges).
Anticlockwise Sun / Sun to the north - Dante the character in the poem is thoroughly startled by this and Dante the poet has quite a bit of fun at his expense, as it all has to be explained to him.
Latitude and seasonal changes - Mount Purgatory being mostly above the Earth's atmosphere, it does not of course have weather. But Canto 4, in which Dante-the-character eventually manages to understand what is going on, handles the matter in terms of whether the Sun's path is "our side of the equator" or "the other side of the equator" - with "our side" and "the other side" changing places as we go from Jerusalem to the southern hemisphere.

A:

One does not need heliocentrism for this. The path of the Sun in the sky (as seen from the Earth) was well understood in Hellenistic times, and probably long before that. It was also understood how this path determines seasons. So probably these phenomena were known
before Hipparchus. I say probably because very little  astronomic work before Ptolemy survived to our day, so one cannot be sure who noticed this explicitly for the first time. Maybe even Thales who wrote books on solstices and equinoxes, but we have no way to know what was in those books.
Another thing is that this was not common knowledge, just a few astronomers (they were called philosophers at that time) understood these things. There is a famous story described by Herodotus (IV, 43) about an expedition
which sailed around Africa, from the Red sea to Gibraltar by Indian and Atlantic oceans.
Herodotus wrote: "According to their account (which I do not believe, let anyone believe who wants) they saw the Sun on their right hand side". It is exactly this "improbable" detail which is considered a proof that this expedition really happened:-)

