Q:

What motivated the development of the theory of perspective during the Renaissance?

It is said that the theory of perspective in art was greatly developed during the Renaissance because of the search for reality at this time: more realistic representations.
My question is what motivated this search for reality? Were there philosophical, theological reasons, etc? Was it an intellectual challenge? curiosity? demands from the wealthier social class who wanted paintings like photographs?
Are there references and studies that deal with this issue?
The theory of perspective is an important part of the history of science and mathematics. It is a mathematical model that describes how objects appear to change in size and shape as they are seen from different angles. This model has been used in art, architecture, and engineering for centuries.
One of the earliest known references to the theory of perspective is in the work of the ancient Greek mathematician Euclid. In his book, Optics, Euclid describes how to construct a perspective drawing. He also discusses the effects of perspective on the appearance of objects, such as how they appear to shrink as they move away from the viewer.
The theory of perspective was further developed in the Renaissance by artists and mathematicians such as Filippo Brunelleschi, Leon Battista Alberti, and Albrecht Dürer. These artists used the principles of perspective to create realistic and convincing paintings and sculptures. They also used perspective to create illusions of depth and space.
The theory of perspective has also been applied to other fields, such as engineering and architecture. In engineering, perspective is used to design objects that are safe and effective. In architecture, perspective is used to create buildings that are pleasing to the eye.
In conclusion, the theory of perspective is a valuable tool that has been used in a variety of fields. It is a product of the history of science and mathematics, and it continues to be used today.
Here are some additional references that support this thesis:
Alberti, Leon Battista. On Painting. Translated by John R. Spencer. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1966.
Dürer, Albrecht. Four Books on Human Proportion. Translated by Caroline Elam. New York: Dover Publications, 1977.
Kemp, Martin. The Science of Art: Optical Themes in Western Art from Brunelleschi to Seurat. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1990.

A:

There were of course philosophical and cultural reasons for the development of the (linear) perspective during the Renaissance.
It cannot be considered simply a change of tastes of patrons of art or a phenomenon out of curiosity.
It was linked to profound cultural changes  and different attitudes toward the role of man in the world and toward religion which took place during the so-called humanism ( also called Renaissance humanism).
And it was also linked to a renewed interest in sciences, as physics and mathematics: consider, first of all Leonardo Da Vinci, who was at the same time one of the greatest artists of all time and a scientist.
In short words, it can be said that perspective can be considered a consequence and an expression of the modern anthropocentrism, which arose with humanism and Renaissance.
By the term Renaissance humanism  historians  denote a vast cultural renewal movement, in arts and in philosophy, which characterized European civilization, conventionally established between the end of the XIV century and the end of XV century, which had an attitude of sharp break with Medieval thought, above all by setting the man at the center of the vision of life and of the world, and therefore substituting anthropocentrism for theocentrism, which was typical of the previous era.
Renaissance humanism  was characterized by an intense study of ancient classical authors, and an acknowledgment of the privileged position of man in  nature.
In figurative arts, perspective is the expression of this new anthropocentrism:

In perspective the anthropocentric culture of modern era finds expression.
The new painting style which we call Renaissance, based on perspective and on the rationalization of space, is the sign of a new attitude of man toward the world, of a spiritual, cultural and social transformation […]. The concept of space which emerges  is not an expression of eternal ideas, immutable and abstract[…] The perspective image confers to the observer a privileged position, that acknowledges the primacy of the subject in the area  of knowledge,  and their centrality in historical agency. For this reason, perspective is the sign of the constitution of an anthropocentric thought, which abandons the Medieval theocentric attitude.
[…] The space that is represented is no longer the divine and absolute
space, but the projection of a subjective point of view, both
individual and universal: individual because it is supposed to be
occupied by a unique observer, with only one open eye; universal as
any other observer could stay on that point  and reconstruct the space
which from it takes form according to the universal laws of Euclidean
geometry and optic. $^1$

$$***$$
The literature about Renaissance and perspective is very vast. Some of the most important historians of art dedicated efforts to the subject.
With regard to  perspective, specifically, there are two books of some of the most well-known scholars of art:
Panofsky, Erwin,  Perspective as a symbolic Form
Florensky, Pavel,   Beyond Vision
Florensky was a Russian philosopher, a mathematician and an art historian, and he wrote also about art and mathematics.
$$***$$
Perspective is at the center of many connections between art and sciences, in particular, of course, mathematics and physics.
Boyer, A History of Mathematics,  and Kline, Mathematic Thought from Ancient to Modern Times, devote some chapters to Renaissance and mathematics, and in particular to the relationships between mathematics, perspective  and art.
Boyer recalls Italian and European artist who developed relatively new links between mathematics and figurative arts, as Filippo Brunelleschi, Leon Battista Alberti, Piero Della Francesca, Leonardo Da Vinci, Albrecht Dürer.
In particular it is interesting that he mentions a treatise, which has been lost, by Leonardo Da Vinci, about perspective, Trattato della Pittura (Treatise of Painting), which begins with the admonition. “Don’t read me, if you are not a mathematician!” (Boyer, Chap. 15, sec. 20) $^2$,
Morris Klein devotes a chapter to the mathematical contribution of Renaissance, and recalls that the Renaissance artists were ‘universal’ men, as they had to do any kind of jobs, so that

they were obliged to learn mathematics, physics, architecture,
stonecutting, engineering, metalworking, anatomy, woodworking, optics,
statics,  and hydraulics. They worked manually and at the same time
they coped with the most abstract problems. At least in the XV
century, they were the best mathematical physicists. [emphasis mine] (Kline, Chap. 12, section 1) $^3$

Therefore, they contributed to the development of geometry, for instance Alberti introduced the concepts of projection and section.
Kline, moreover,  points out  that at the origin of the projective geometry there were some problems that arose in the theory of perspective:

Some geometers of the XVIII century tried to give an answer to these
problems. They considered the methods and the results they obtained as
a part of Euclidean geometry. Actually, these methods and results [..
.] proved to be the origin of a new branch of geometry , which in the
XIX century became known as projective geometry.

Obviously,  the studies about perspective were linked not only to mathematics but also to physics.
An interesting study available in English is
Camerota, Filippo, Linear Perspective in the Age of Galileo.
The author here discusses the work of Ludovico Cigoli, La prospettiva pratica (The Practical Perspective), which is an extraordinary scientific document of the role of the representation of the visible world in Galilean research. Cigoli was a painter very close to Galileo, and his treatise illustrates important aspects of the perspective painting, as orthogonal projections of shadows or the use of mechanical instruments.
Another book by Filippo Camerota is La prospettiva del Rinascimento. Arte, architettura, scienza.
(Perspective of Renaissance. Art, Architecture, Science)
The book is a history of perspective, beginning with the studies about vision based on the geometric model of Euclid, through Giotto, Brunelleschi, Alberti, Leonardo, with its connections with mathematics and science.
But I don’t know if an English translation exists.
$$\;$$
You can see also:
Samuel Y. Edgerton,
The Mirror, the Window, and the Telescope: How Renaissance Linear Perspective Changed Our Vision of the Universe

$^1$ https://finestresuartecinemaemusica.blogspot.com/2018/09/la-prospettiva-come-espressione.html (my translation).   The literature about Renaissance humanism and anthropocentrism is broad, for some link in English see https://www.archaeology.wiki/blog/issue/the-anthropocentric-cosmotheory-of-the-renaissance-and-the-cult-of-man/
https://mylandrover.ru/en/suspension/antropocentrizm-i-gumanizm-v-filosofskoi-mysli-vozrozhdeniya-gumanizm-i.html 
$^2$  p. 343 Italian edition
$^3$  p. 271 Italian edition. 

