Q:

Why are 'speed' and 'velocity' not given the same name?

Position is a vector. Distance/length is a name of its magnitude. 
Velocity is a vector. Speed is a name of its magnitude.
Acceleration is a name of a vector and its magnitude.
Force is a name of a vector and its magnitude.
Momentum is a name of a vector and its magnitude.
...

Of all the vastly many types of vector quantities we traditionally have defined in physics (and other technical sciences), two leap out at us as oddly different, regarding their terminology: Position and velocity.
These two vectors have scalar magnitudes that are named differently than themselves. For all other vectors, the naming convention is to use the same term for both the vector itself as well as for its scalar magnitude. If we are talking about the vector or the scalar then depends on context - at least we don't have to memorise two terms for each defined vector quantity.
I am aware of the use in the English language. These many different words exist in English, sure, such as distance, length, displacement in relation to position, and such as speed in relation to velocity. But just because many words exist in the shared language, this doesn't have to require scientists to include all those words into accurate definitions in physics.
Are there any historical reasons for why only these two vector quantities have differently named scalar magnitudes, a practice which breaks the otherwise consistent terminology pattern, and a practice that confuses and complicates the introductory teaching of physics (these two quantites are after all the very first ones you learn about in your high-school and/or university science class).

A:

Gibbs, the father of vector analysis in physics, or his student Edwin Bidwell Wilson, seems to have established the tradition of using the word speed for the scalar, and the word velocity for the vector. It seems to me that using these two different names was meant to be helpful when introducing vectors, rather than to confuse and complicate.
Gibbs's lecture notes on vector analysis and its use in physics circulated in a small circle since 1881. Wilson was asked to expand on these notes and write a textbook that would be more suitable as a first introduction to the subject. His book Vector Analysis (1901), had a huge influence, and it helped to standardize the notation and vocabulary. In the book, Wilson recommended using the words speed and velocity as follows: Velocity is a vector quantity. Its direction is the direction of the tangent of the curve described by the particle. The term speed is used frequently to denote merely the scalar value of the velocity. This convention will be followed here.
That recommendation was repeated by a popular physics textbook that was published a few years later: A Textbook on Physics by Duff (1909): For clearness such a phrase as 'twenty miles an hour' may be called the statement of a speed, which means the mere magnitude of a velocity without reference to the direction.
Before Gibbs the distinction between the words speed and velocity was less clear. For example, Maxwell discussed speed, velocity, vectors and scalars in his book Matter and Motion (1877). He said: The rate or speed of the motion is called the velocity of the particle, and its magnitude is expressed by saying that it is such a distance in such a time, as, for instance, ten miles an hour, or one metre per second.
(copied from a post by me in Physics Forums)

A:

Having read @jkien's answer I have done done some research on the first use of the terms velocity and speed as we define them nowadays.
@jkien writes

Gibbs's lecture notes on vector analysis and its use in physics
circulated in a small circle since 1881.

A copy of these notes by Gibbs, Elements of Vector Analysis arranged for the use of students of Physics dated 1884 has no mention of the word speed.
I then came across a copy of An Elementary Treatise on Kinematics and Dynamics by MccGregor published in 1887 which states in the Preface,

Now Tait wrote with Steele a textbook, A treatise on the Dynamics of Particles, which was published in many editions.
Comparing the Fourth Edition paragraph 8 published in 1878,

with the Fifth Edition paragraph 8 published in 1882,

one can see that Tait and Steele adopted the modern definitions of speed and velocity.
It might well be that around 1880 there were discussions amongst many English speaking scientists about the use of words speed and velocity and then a consensus was arrived at.
I am not certain as to which publication of Tait and Steele's MacGregor was referring to but it looks as though that somewhere between 1882 and 1884 formal definitions of speed and velocity were adopted.

