Q:

Could 17th century astronomers in the Netherlands predict solar eclipses a few months in advance?

In the 17th century Netherlands, could the astronomers, or sailors trained in stellar navigation, predict either total or partial (at least 40% obscured) solar eclipses over the the town of Aardenburg (about halfway between Bruges and Vlissingen), in the Dutch province of Zeeland), six weeks (or more) in advance?
While I've seen Edmond Halley being credited for being the first to accurately predict an eclipse in Europe, "Halley wasn’t the first to map a solar eclipse, either, with such charts having appeared since the 17th century." The Guardian

A:

The short answer is yes. Under the following conditions:
Let me state the problem more exactly: suppose that a solar eclipse of at least 40% WILL occur within a year from now. Could some person in the second half of 17th century make this prediction with 100% probability?
a) prediction for short period (few months, perhaps up to a year).
b) possession of a good angle measuring instrument (they were not common in 17th century, they started to make them in the middle of 17 century, and they were custom made. (The Royal observatory was founded in 1675, and this was the first such establishment in Europe). And certainly few people possessed such instruments. (They started using them in navigation only in the middle of 18th century).
c) very few people had necessary knowledge, certainly not common navigators, not speaking of astrologists. One of such people was Edmund Halley, by the way, I can name few others: Newton, Flamsteed (Astronomer Royal), Thomas Harriot (1560-1621), perhaps 10 or 20 others in Europe by the end of 17th century. There is no doubt that a few of them were in Netherlands.
In principle, the motion of Sun and Moon with necessary accuracy for such predictions was known
at the time of Ptolemy, but his parameters were not exact. One needed a good instrument to measure these parameters. Published tables of sufficient accuracy were not available yet. (They appeared only in 18th century, for example the tables produced by the same Royal observatory, or analogous tables in France).
So the answer is yes, this was possible in principle, in the second half of the century, but required a very special person with special knowledge, possessing rare and expensive instruments.
Remark. It is very different for Lunar eclipses, which could be predicted since the times of Ptolemy.

