Q:

Did Schiaparelli comment on the martian canals debate?

It s well known that in 1888, Italian Giovanni Schiaparelli announced finding a network of narrow lines on Mars, which he described as "canali," which a lot of English speakers including American Astronomer Percival Lowell took to mean "canals" and assumed were created by intelligent beings.    Others point out that the word can as well mean "channels," and even in English "canal" need not mean an artificially built thing.
But Schiaparelli lived until 1910 and there was a huge fuss about these canals and as far as I can find on line there is no record at all of any response by Schiaparelli.
Does anyone here know of a response by  Schiaparelli?  Did he ever clarify whether he thought these "canali"  could have been created by intelligent beings?

A:

I've found a place where he says that they did not need to be created by intelligent beings. That's something.
The source is Schiaparelli's book La Vita Sul Pianeta Marte (The Life on the Planet Mars), published in 1893.
Near the middle (in Part IV), he writes

Che del resto le linee dette _canali_siano veramente grandi solchi o depressioni delle superficie del pianeta destinate al passaggio di masse liquide, e costituiscano su di esso un vero sistema idrografico, è dimostrato dai fenomeni che in quelli si osservano durante lo struggersi delle nevi boreali. Già dicemmo che queste, nello sciogliersi appaiono circondate da una zona oscura, formante una specie di mare temporario. In tale epoca i canali delle regioni circostanti si fanno più neri e più larghi, ingrossando al punto da ridurre, in un certo momento, ad isole di poca estensione tutto le aree gialle comprese fra l'orlo della neve e il 60° parallelo nord. Tale stato di cose non cessa, se non quando le nevi, ridotte ormai al loro minimo di estensione, cessano di struggersi. Si attenuano allora le larghezze dei canali, scompare il mare temporario, e le aree gialle riprendono l'estensione primitiva. Le diverse fasi di questa grandiosa operazione si rinnovano ad ogni giro di stagioni ed i loro particolari si son potuti osservare con molta evidenza nelle opposizioni 1882, 1884, 1886, quando il pianeta presentava allo spettatore terrestre il suo polo boreale. L'interpretazione più naturale e più semplice è quella che abbiam riferito, di una grande inondazione prodotta dallo squagliarsi delle nevi; essa è interamente logica, e sostenuta da evidenti analogie con fenomeni terrestri. Concludiamo pertanto, che i canali son tali di fatto, e non solo di nome. La rete da essi formata probabilmente fu determinata in origine dallo stato geologico del pianeta, e si è venuta lentamente elaborando nel corso dei secoli. Non occorre suppor qui l'opera di esseri intelligenti; e malgrado l'apparenza quasi geometrica di tutto il loro sistema, per ora incliniamo a credere che essi siano prodotti dell'evoluzione del pianeta, appunto come sulla Terra il canale della Manica e quello di Mozambico.

I don't know Italian, but Google Translate seems to work reasonably well. It gives me (emphasis mine)

That the rest of the lines called "canali" [channels] are really great grooves or depressions of the surface of the planet destined to the passage of liquid masses, and constitute about it a real river system, is demonstrated by the phenomena which are observed during those pining snow borealis. We have said that these, in the melt appear surrounded by a dark area, forming a kind of temporary sea. At that time the channels of the surrounding regions are more blacks and wider, swelling to the point of reducing, at a certain moment, to the islands of little extension all the yellow areas ranging from the edge of the snow and the 60th parallel north. This situation does not cease, except when the snows, now reduced to their minimum extension, cease to droop. Then the widths of the channels are reduced, the temporary sea disappears, and yellow areas resume the primitive extension. The different phases of this great operation are renewed with every turn of the seasons and we were able to observe this phenomenon with much evidence during opposition in 1882, 1884, 1886, when the planet showed to the terrestrial viewer its north pole. The most natural and simplest interpretation is the one that we have reported, a great flood produced by melting snow; it is entirely logical, and supported by clear similarities with terrestrial phenomena. We conclude therefore, that the channels are such in fact, and not only in name. The network formed by them was probably determined in origin by the geological state of the planet, and it slowly developed over the centuries. There is no need to suppose here the work of intelligent beings; and despite the almost geometric appearance of the whole system, up to now we are inclined to believe that they are the product of the evolution of the planet, just as on Earth the English Channel and the Mozambique.

This appears to have been before Lowell got started, which means that Schaparelli saw this debate coming, and did his best to make it clear that he did not think that these features were created by intelligent beings.

