Q:

Why was the original typesetting of Number Fields by Marcus so horrible?

Does anyone here know what technology or instrument was used to typeset the first edition of the well-received textbook Number Fields by Daniel A. Marcus? I ask because the original edition looked like it was typeset using a toaster (forgive my exaggeration). A preview of the first edition can be viewed on Google Books. It was published in 1995 by Springer, whereas I have read papers from much earlier where the typesetting was pretty good (for example, this paper of Lehmer from 1932), so I can't fathom why the typesetting was so bad. It looks like it was written on a typewriter, though given the usage of notation from algebraic number theory, it probably was not an actual typewriter.
(Thankfully, a LaTeX-ed second edition was finally published by Springer in 2018.)

A:

The book came out in 1977, not 1995; look at the year at the end of the Foreword that Marcus wrote. My copy has a copyright from 1977 too. LaTex or even TeX was not an option in 1977 since that was the year before the original version of TeX was released. The typesetting in the original version of Marcus was clearly done on a typewriter.
I agree it is unusual for a professionally published book from the 1970s not to be typeset better, but if you look at Springer  Lecture Notes in Mathematics from that period you will find volumes that were prepared on typewriters too. Among math books, Serre’s Lie Algebras and Lie Groups (1965), Fulton’s Algebraic Curves (1969), the Proc. Symp. Pure Math volume on Mathematical Developments from the Hilbert Problems (1974), and Mumford’s Red Book (1976) were all prepared on typewriters. So I’d say Marcus was in good company.  Around 10 years after "Number Fields" first came out, Cambridge Univ. Press published "Local Fields" by Cassels in 1986 and it was quite clearly prepared on a typewriter.
That there are math symbols (Greek letters, doubled Z and R for $\mathbb Z$ and $\mathbb R$, etc.) does not mean it could not be done on a typewriter. Typewriters had special mechanisms to type a range of technical symbols. Articles  were submitted to journals back then as typewriter copy.
Look here for a discussion of mathematical typing before LaTeX.

