Q:

Which book gives a thorough understanding on the scientific environment of antiquity?

I have started reading Rene Dugas' History of Mechanics book. I want to understand physics from the spectacle of seeing its intellectual evolution instead of directly jumping into its general theories/paradigms, for I don't want leaps in the knowledge, which I think is going to leave in the unstable situation in the scientific field of genuine analysis.   
For this project, I have taken Dugas book as the aid to see the persons contributing mechanics, then reading their books. Dugas book starts from Arsitotle, so at the first, I want to know the scientific environment in the antiquity, at least from Aristotle. Any book suggestions or the suggestion on the matter considered here will be really helpful.  

A:

Not much is really known about general "scientific environment". What we really have is only books and fragments of scientists and references on them in other works. It is commonly acknowledged that most writings did not survive. So we cannot have an adequate picture of the general scientific environment. The most developed sciences were mathematics and astronomy, and there are many good books on this, for example:
Exact sciences in antiquity by O. Neugebauer, and Science awakening by B. L. van der Waerden. (They cover Babylonian science, not only Greek).
One general comprehensive book on Hellenistic science is
L. Russo, The Forgotten Revolution, but it covers only the Hellenistic period. There are many more specialized books, especially on mathematics and astronomy. 

A:

For different perspectives:

Richard Olson, Technology and Science in Ancient Civilizations (2010)
G.E.RLloyd, The Revolutions of Wisdom: Studies in the Claims and Practice of Ancient Greek Science (1989)
G.E.R. Lloyd & Nathan Sivin, The Way and the Word: Science and Medicine in Early China and Greece (2002).

More specifically on mechanics, see:

Sylvia Berryman, The Mechanical Hypothesis in Ancient Greek Natural Philosophy (2009).

A:

I find Russo's Forgotten Revolution very instructive for the breadth of sources he draws upon if nothing else, although some of his reconstructions are controversial. Zhmud's Origin of the History of Science in Classical Antiquity is also panoramic, and covers the pre-Hellenistic period. Sambursky's Physical World of the Greeks and other works are somewhat more narrowly focused.

