Q:

On the notion of a chain (as for example in chain complex)

The thing with mathematics is that on one if you define something, you are completely free in choosing any name you want, and on the other hand you should find a meaningful name that evokes some intuitive ideas that coincide with what you actually wanted to do. So long story short, one thing that always bothered me is the following:
What is the origin of the term chain? When was it first used and what explanation (if any) was given?
To be a bit more precise, by chain I mean a finite linear combination of (oriented) simplices. 
I looked into Dieudonné's "A History of Algebraic and Differential Topology" but there he only points out in a footnote that the term was coined by J.W. Alexander without giving any source.
Maybe related to this is the notion of a chain complex, which I think at least once someone explained to me as being a chain of arrows, eventhough these arrows are actually the things mapping chains to chains. This is of course not helped by the fact that some useful abstractions of a chain are called complexes (as in CW or simplicial). I guess that the term chain complex was coined some time afterwards, but in some cases concepts are found and given a name much later, so maybe there is a chance they are related.
Finally I may need to add that my background is in mathematical analysis, my primary interest in chains is integrating something along them. I am not very well versed in abstract algebra, so there may be some simple source that I missed. However I am more interested in the basic geometrical objects not in the abstract generalisations. (only there is no algebraic geometry tag...)

A:

One learns quite a bit by searching I. M. James' History of Topology (1999):
The name: Lefschetz (p. 546) confirms that

The felicitous term "chain" is due to Alexander

while Katz (p. 119) specifies that it was coined in the paper Combinatorial analysis situs (1926). Weibel (p. 801) adds that "chain complex" was introduced by Mayer in Über abstrakte Topologie (1929). Finally Vanden Eynde (p. 97) points to the earlier use of chains ("Ketten") with a different meaning by Brouwer (following Cantor) in Beweis der Invarianz der geschlossenen Kurve (1912).
The thing: Sarkaria (p. 141) traces it to Poincaré's Analysis Situs (1895) where it is among the four(!) different things called "variety":

In § 4 "varieties" are oriented, and then in §§ 5 and 6 Poincaré considers integral or rational linear combinations of the oriented varieties of an $M$ to define its homologies and Betti numbers: in this context it is best to think of his "varieties" as smooth chains of $M$.

(As @CatherineRay notes, Poincaré's paper ironically also used the term "(connected) chain" to mean something altogether different.)

A:

I believe the term chain was introduced by Poincare as part of his second definition of the term manifold; the definition I am referring to is on pg. 24-25 of Stillwell's wonderful translation of Analysis Situs. 

"We then say that the two manifolds V and V ′ are analytic
  continuations of each other. In this way we can form a chain of
  manifolds V1, V2, ..., Vn such that each is an analytic continuation
  of its predecessor, and there is a common part between any two
  consecutive manifolds of the chain. I shall call this a connected
  chain."

Poincare goes on and mentions something akin to a combination of oriented simplices: 

"...There are, in fact, manifolds (and we shall see examples later)
  which can be decomposed into a certain number of partial manifolds
  forming a connected chain or network and such that each of them can be
  defined by equations of the form (8)..." 

[(8) references that a collection of equations of the form
$x_1= \theta_1(y_1,...y_m) ; x_2=\theta_2(y_1,...y_m) ;...; x_n=\theta_n(y_1,...y_m) $ represents a manifold of m dimensions (if the $y$ are considered as independent variables).]
Also note, Alexander's definition of the term chain (page 301 of Combinatorial Analysis Situs) cites Poincare's formula for describing the cell structure of a manifold in terms of an incidence matrix.

"In his first long paper on topology Poincare (1895) continued to
  explore the Betti numbers. He set up machinery for computing them by
  assuming that each manifold has a decomposition into cells
  homeomorphic to simplices, reading off linear equations he called
  homologies, and computing the Betti numbers by linear algebra."

-- Mathematical perspectives, Stillwell

