Q:

source of "logistic growth"?

I've been trying to find the source of the name of the DE modelling population growth known as logistic growth, for some time: why "Logistic" ? So far all my attempts to research it have hit dead ends - very curious if any math/ French language buffs have any idea. 
The only suggestion I have found is a rather tenuous tie to the French "logis" (for dwelling/home) but this doesn't seem very plausible given it doesn't have a corresponding adjectival form.

A:

According to some on-line resources for historical French lexicon, around 1770 [see : Fortunato Bartolomeo De Felice, vol.26 of: Encyclopédie ou Dictionnaire universel raisonné des connoissances humaines (1773)] :

[Adjectivement] Logarithmes logistiques, logarithmes dans lesquels zéro est le logarithme correspondant au nombre 3600. Ces logarithmes sont commodes pour les calculs astronomiques [see Jérôme Lalande, Astronomie, par M. de La Lande, Tome premier (1764, enlarged edition, 4 vols, 1771–1781), Table LXXVII, page 89 ].

This, it seems, must be the source of the name: courbe logistique [logistic curve] used by Pierre François Verhulst in his 1845 work: "Recherches mathématiques sur la loi d'accroissement de la population". 
See  page 8.

A:

As Mauro states, the term logistic is due to the Belgian mathematician Pierre François Verhulst, who invented the logistic growth model, and named it logistic (French: logistique) in his 1845 "Recherches mathématiques sur la loi d'accroissement de la population", p. 8:

Nous donnerons le nom de logistique à la courbe

We will give the name logistic to the curve

He does not explain why he uses this term, but it is presumably by analogy with arithmetic, geometric, and in contrast to logarithmic, as in figure below (from the original paper).
The French term logistique is from Ancient Greek λογιστικός (logistikós, “practiced in arithmetic; rational”), from λογίζομαι (logízomai, “I reason, I calculate”), from λόγος (lógos, “reason, computation”), whence English logos, logic, logarithm, etc. In Ancient Greek mathematics, logistikós was a division of mathematics: practical computation and accounting, in contrast to ἀριθμητική (arithmētikḗ), the theoretical or philosophical study of numbers. Confusingly, today we call practical computation arithmetic, and don't use logistic to refer to computation.
Verhulst first discusses the arithmetic growth and geometric growth models, referring to arithmetic progression and geometric progression, and calling the geometric growth curve a logarithmic curve (confusingly, the modern term is instead exponential curve, which is the inverse), then follows with his new model of "logistic" growth, which is presumably named by analogy, after a traditional division of mathematics, and in contrast to the logarithmic curve. The term logarithm is itself derived as log-arithm, from Ancient Greek λόγος (lógos) and ἀριθμός (arithmós), the sources respectively of logistic and arithmetic.
There is no connection with logis (lodging), though that is the source of the term logistics (1830).

Cross-posted at Cross Validated: Why is the logistic distribution called “logistic”?
Cross-posted at Mathematics: Why is logistic equation called “logistic”?

