Q:

Has physics ever given a physical significance to a mathematically abstract idea?

Consider a fundamental concept in maths that was created to 'solve' a problem that simply couldn't be solved by any other approach (or maybe for some other reason). Now let's assume that this concept made no sense to the contemporary mathematicians whatsoever that they simply brushed it aside as a purely mathematical tool with $0$ physical significance. like the square root of $-1
, $ $ i$ or the Euler number maybe?. Anything that makes no sense to a present-day mathematical outsider really.
A couple of decades later after its birth, baam, a scientist realises that the only way to solve a paradox in physics was to use this very mathematical concept that had to seem to be abstract at the time. Is there any good example of this in history?

Inspiration
This is with respect to the idea of maths being seen as a subject with no real-life application. I wanted to disprove by saying that many mathematical concepts do have a real-life application (if we look back at the history), but it's just that we haven't found any use so far.
I am slightly aware that e and complex numbers like $i$ makes it into the world of electrical engineering though I don't remember where exactly. I also vaguely recollect topology space and an array of mathematical concepts coming into the world by the theory of general relativity and quantum mechanics. What I am really looking for is
(1) a concept in maths that initially seems to have had no use 
(2) 70 years later it is been used in a formula (please do add the formula too; that's really the reason I came here)

A:

Physics cannot help giving physical significance to things. But, yes, the first item on your list should have been

Lie Groups.

Developed as a mathematical "sudoku" game generalizing rotations, in the late 19th century, by Sophus Lie, Felix Klein, Friedrich Engel, Henri Poincare, and, as  associated  applied mathematical structures by James Joseph Sylvester and Arthur Cayley,
they were recognized by physicists in the early 20th century to apply to the new-fangled science of Quantum mechanics, the actual cornerstone of modern physics, by Eugene Wigner and Hermann Weyl, firstly through the rotation group SO(3) ~ SU(2).
In the 1960s, Murray Gell-Mann appreciated that SU(3), both classified and further described, in fact, elementary particle interactions, the Eightfold Way; whence  the full-fledged Lie Group theory entered as the mainstay of Quantum Field Theory describing fundamental particles and forces in all of High Energy physics. Now that's an example of abstract math underlying all of nature at its most fundamental, a century before that was recognized!
Today, hardly anything describing electroweak interactions, strong interactions, or gravity is thinkable without crucial and irreplaceable reliance on Lie Group representation theory. The fundamental laws of nature run on Lie groups. Theoretical HEP theorists are part-time Lie-Group applied mathematicians. This is the sort of thing they have to master in school.

A:

fractal
The so-called Cantor set was described by
Georg Cantor, 1884 (or H. J. S. Smith, 1875?)
Sets with "fractional" dimension were described by
Felix Hausdorff, 1918
Investigated thoroughly by
A. S. Besicovitch, 1930s - 1950s
But these were only mathematical abstractions.
Benoit B. Mandelbrot, 1960s and later
claimed relevance of these sets in natural sciences.
Mandelbrot reported that, in the early days, when he would submit a paper
to a physics journal with a Cantor set in it, that it would be rejected out-of-hand as "unphysical".
Largely due to Mandelbrot's efforts, that situation has been completely reversed.
In 1992, I counted that physics papers with the word "fractal" in the title were appearing more frequently than once a week.

A:

The following quote is from C. N. Yang, delivered at a 1979 symposium dedicated to the geometer Chern: "When I met Chern, I told him that I finally understood the beauty of the theory of fibre bundles and the elegant Chern​–Weil theorem.  I was struck that gauge fields, in particular connections on fibre bundles, were studied by mathematicians without any appeal to physical realities.  I added that it is mysterious and incomprehensible how you mathematicians could think this up out of nothing.  To this Chern immediately objected. 'No, no, this concept is not invented — it is natural and real.'"

