Q:

Why do we learn little about Mendeleev when compared to other science figures?

This is not a question about chemistry as a science, but as a school discipline.
Why is it that Mendeleev as a person is barely mentioned in chemistry courses compared to all the others, like Coulomb, Bohr, Planck, Heisenberg, Boyle, Avogadro, etc.? His story is quite inspiring and I think we should all learn it while in school, not by watching a YouTube video (as was my case). In my layman's view, Mendeleev performed a thought jump (can't even call that an insight) equivalent to that of Einstein's special relativity when coming up with the concept of the periodic table. Today, we take the table for granted, but how would someone even begin to think of such a concept back when we knew so little about chemistry?
Is this some left over from the Cold War, because Mendeleev was Russian? Or something similar to Newton vs Leibniz, or maybe even Edison vs Tesla?
I do not believe the question I have asked is completely subjective, because I would assume some chemistry teachers to be present. Mendeleev's contributions to chemistry are indisputable, yet, we learn so little about him. 

A:

I share the same sentiments as well. Actually Dimitri Mendeleev, is still one of my favourite Chemists (actually the best).
Leaving everything non-chemistry aside, he made one of the most astonishing discoveries in chemistry. As the this article states:

Good scientists discover new information and make sense of it, linking
  it to other data. They may go further by giving an explanation of this
  linked data which, maybe not immediately, other scientists accept as a
  correct explanation.

And goes on further..

However the outstanding scientist goes further in predicting
  consequences of his ideas which can be tested. This boldness
  identifies the great scientist if the predictions are later found to
  be accurate.

Which really agrees with idea that he is one of the greatest. This true prediction later formed the foundations of various branches of chemistry including periodicity, much of inorganic chemistry and physical chemistry.
I guess the reason memories of him quickly vanish, is because his concepts are taught at at very basic or entry of chemistry and as humans we tend to forget and quickly become preoccupied with more difficult stuff as we further study chemistry.
Sometimes its just preference, for example my chemistry teacher's favourite scientist/chemist was Henry Louis Le Châtelier while my medicinal chemistry teacher's favourite was Kekulé
Thus all scientist who made contribution to the field of chemistry all deserve equal recognition and honour as chemistry would never be the same without them

