Q:

Why did most steam locomotives use simple expansion?

As steam engine pressures increased, it was realized the exhaust steam still had useful pressure. The compound engine was invented to take advantage of this. The exhaust from a small high pressure cylinder fed into a larger low pressure cylinder to extract further work. The most famous example is probably the marine Triple Expansion Engine which greatly improved the efficiency of marine steam engines.
Compound engines were popular in marine and static applications, but their usage in railway locomotives was patchy at best. Although popular in a few locations (France comes to mind), the vast majority of 20th century steam locomotives were built with simple expansion engines.
Why?

A:

This question was originally posted to test the limits of what is on and off topic. I was going to eventually post an answer, but I see we have two answers. In my opinion, both answers dance around the subject a little, so I am adding my own answer.

This kind of question is always going to be partially subjective. Locomotive development tended to occur in independent strands (companies, countries) with would often confer with each other. Hence the importance of each reason will vary between different countries and companies.
I will try to illustrate my reasons with examples, but they are only examples and there will be a bias towards the UK where I have greater knowledge.

Costs. Greater efficiency means you can get more power for a set amount of coal or require less coal for a set amount of power. This is important, even in a coal-rich country like the UK. As such, a working compound system should be an easy 'choice'. This would explain the choice in some later (1920s-30s) locomotive developments such as Chapelon in France (Gresley Observer vol. 156), and US Mallets.
However there are multiple costs. In the case of the UK, maintenance costs often  discouraged otherwise 'obvious' money saving issues - eg. feed water heaters (eg. LNER B12) and boosters (cf. the LNER's experience with the S1, P1). These developments often had a history of being fitted and then removed a few years later.
Other answers have hinted at complexity. The reality is that it is possible to squeeze four cylinders into the restricted loading gauge of the UK (US and Continental Europe have more space). However compromises have to be made with steam passages and layouts. This adds inefficiencies and maintenance costs. These can be avoided with the three cylinder layout that was popular in the UK (eg. Stanier Duchess, and Gresley A3 & A4). Gresley's A4 has already been mentioned (one holds the world speed record). The internal streamlining is considered almost as important as the external (as determined by Chapelon and communicated to Gresley), and a complex layout such as four cylinders or compounding would not have allowed for this streamlining.
Effectiveness. This basically comes down to good design and train crews who know how to use compounding effectively. Early attempts at compounding in the UK at least, were imperfectly designed. UK companies tended to give limited training to the loco crews, whilst France (especially under Chapelon) implemented a high degree of education - hence they had much more success in the day-to-day use of compounding (Gresley Observer vol. 156)
Culture. This is harder to quantify, but it does seem that UK companies were largely poisoned to the idea after the initial failures. Although the North Eastern Railway 
finally managed to get a system developed by Walter Smith to work effectively, it never developed them further after his death. This might have been due to patent costs or management decision to move away from compounding. The Midland Railway did make extensive use of this, but only for a mid-power 4-4-0 (of which No. 1000 survives in the National Collection).
Requirements. The later use of compounding tended to be only when other factors made it more effective. For example, the US usage of compounds in Mallet locomotives. These were usually large freight-hauling locomotives with articulation and higher pressure boilers. Each power truck would have two cylinders. The pressure and space allowed for effective compounding.
Similarly, Gresley used compounding on his W1 'Hush-Hush' experimental locomotive. This used an experimental 'water tube boiler' operating at the very high pressure of 400psi. To make effective use of this high pressure, Gresley implemented a compound system with two high pressure and two low pressure cylinders. The W1 never entered production, and it was the only example of a water tube boiler locomotive in the UK.

