Q:

Who replaced the solid Halmos QED symbol with the open one?

Who replaced the Halmos solid QED symbol $\blacksquare$ with the open square $\square$? In his 1955 "general topology" book, page vi, John Kelley attributed the original solid square to Paul Halmos.

The end of each proof is signalized by $\blacksquare$. This notation is also due to Halmos.

To be precise, Kelley used a solid rectangle, about 7 points height above the line, 2 points depth below the line, and a width of 3.2 points. But I can't find such a solid rectangle in this TeX symbol manual for use in Mathjax: http://www.math.harvard.edu/texman/node21.html.
In 1958, Howard Eves in "Foundations and fundamental concepts of mathematics", page 149, wrote:

The modern symbol $\square$, suggested by Paul R. Halmos, or some variant of it, is frequently used to signal the end of a proof.

Even though Eves used the open square, he didn't attribute the change from solid to open to any particular author. The other books where I have seen any historical comments at all on this subject all simply refer to Halmos. No one gives any credit for who used the open square first.
Q1. Does anyone have any references which use the open square earlier than 1958?
Q2. Does anyone know of a definitive attribution for the open square?
Q3. Is it possible that the open square came first, before the solid square?
As you would expect, there are several mentions in wikipedia, but none of them definitive. The closest to an explanation is this apparently self-contradictory page: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tombstone_(typography). I don't have full confidence in the accuracy of the Halmos quote on that page. There's also Q.E.D., Mathematical proof and List of mathematical symbols.

A:

Interesting, I thought that the origin was a Latin pun: "quod" in "quod erat demonstrandum" is similar to "quad", the root in "quadratus", square. It is possible that Halmos did not specify whether the square needed to be filled, and Kelley, or his typographers, simply chose the filled version. End marks in articles that Halmos refers to as inspiration were not necessarily filled, or squares. Reporters often use -30- to sign off, and "in the late 1930s, the popular weekly Woman used a right-facing double chevron to show when its fiction continued over a page (», like a guillemet or French punctuation mark) and simply said ‘THE END’ at, well, the end. Algamated’s news magazine Pictorial Weekly also said ‘THE END.’ on its long pieces (1933)".
Halmos' quote is accurate, and appears on p. 403 of his I Want to Be a Mathematician. The symbol in the text is a hollow square.  Here is the full paragraph: "My most nearly immortal contributions are an abbreviation and a typographical symbol. I invented "iff", for "if and only if" - but I could never believe that I was really its first inventor. I am quite prepared to believe that it existed before me, but I don't know that it did, and my invention (re-invention ?) of it is what spread it through the mathematical world. The symbol is definitely not my invention - it appeared in popular magazines (not mathematical ones) before I adopted it, but, once again, I seem to have introduced it into mathematics. It is the symbol that sometimes looks like ▯ and is used to indicate an end, usually the end of a proof. It is most frequently called the "tombstone", but at least one generous author referred to it as the "halmos"". The use of "iff" was also pioneered in Kelley's General Topology (1955).

