Q:

Technical papers or monographs without a single mathematical equation

Recently, I stumbled upon a historically important monograph on a technical subject, which explained complex physical phenomena without a single mathematical equation. I forgot the name of the author, the work, or any other identifying information. Therefore, I ask this question with two goals in mind: first, rediscover the work (some details below); second, find out if there are other similar examples, especially written by people who otherwise have unquestionable mathematical proficiency.
The monograph I read was written between 16th and 19th century, it may have been on a topic related to light (electromagnetic radiation) or optics, and it was quite a voluminous work with maybe 100 pages. For some reason I think the author was someone of the likes of Christiaan Huygens, Thomas Young, or Augustin-Jean Fresnel, but I am not sure if it is any of these three. I also believe he was English, or the work was written in English, but I am not sure about this either.

A:

I read something like that about Faraday's treatise (book?) (if I remember correctly, there was just one formula there). As for Faraday's mathematical abilities, opinions vary.
I will try to find a reference.
EDIT (Sep 20 2023). Yes, Faraday's "Experimental researches in electricity", 1839, (a big file) seems to fit the bill: a lot of pages without any formulas. I cannot be sure there are not any, but here's a quote from W.F.G. Swann, Science v.73, No. 1896, p.462 (1931):

When one reads through Faraday's experimental researches and finds in
them no mathematical formula, one sometimes wonders whether a person
of his intuitive powers of  conception may not, as a result, have
limited his vision as to the generality of the possibilities. The more
closely we read, however, the more we see that even when delving in
those realms which are the natural field of mathematical analysis, he
has an  uncanny way of knowing exactly what he is doing.

