Q:

Did English ever use a third (1/60 of a second) for measuring time?

An hour has been divided in sixty minutes since medieval times.  During the 16th and 17th century, clocks measuring a second subdivision emerged.  Today we still use the sexagesimal system for dividing hours into minutes and seconds, but below that we use the decimal system (and the second is the only SI unit for time). Wikipedia notes that:

For even further refinement, the term "third" ( 1⁄60 of a second) remains in some languages, for example Polish (tercja) and Turkish (salise), although most modern usage subdivides seconds by using decimals.

The choice of the word remains leave open the possibility that there was such a subdivision in the past.
Has the English Language ever had a sexagesimal subdivision of the second?

A:

Right after your quote Wikipedia has 

"In 1267, the medieval scientist Roger Bacon, writing in Latin, defined the division of time between full moons as a number of hours, minutes, seconds, thirds, and fourths (horae, minuta, secunda, tertia, and quarta) after noon on specified calendar dates".

This use was retained in astronomy but not colloquially, Moxon's Tutor to Astronomy and Geography. Or, An Easie and Speedy Way to Know the Use of Both the Globes (1698):

"Hours are vulgarly divided into halves, quarters and half quarters, but mathematically into minutes, seconds, thirds, fourths, etc."

Arithmetical tables in the second edition of Rusher's English Spelling Book (1851) also list a third as 1/60 of a second.

A:

Oxford English Dictionary
third, adj. (and adv.) and n.
Definition B.7.a.

The third of the subdivisions of any standard measure or dimension which is successively subdivided in a constant ratio; the subdivision next below seconds: see prime n.2 2   ...

with some quotes

1595   J. Davis Seamans Secrets i. sig. B4,   Euery degree..doth containe 60 minutes, and euery minute 60 seconds, and euery second 60 thirds, &c.
1694   W. Holder Disc. Time ii. 32   To divide..an Hour into 60′ (Minutes), a Minute into 60″ (Second Minutes), a Second Minute into 60‴ (Thirds).

