Q:

What calculation did Halley or anyone else do to estimate the effects of Jupiter and Saturn on Halley's comet's return in 1758/9?

This answer to the question First observation that the movement of a planet or asteroid in its orbit was affected by another planet says:

In 1705, with the mathematical assistance of Issac Newton, Edmond Halley published Synopsis of the Astronomy of Comets which made the prediction that the comet observed in 1682 had previously been observed in 1531 and 1607 was the same object returning about every 76 years or so. He included a rough estimation of the gravitational effects of Jupiter and Saturn, and predicted it would return in 1758.

Is there anything written specifically about mathematics used in a "rough estimation of the gravitational effects of Jupiter and Saturn"? Was the size of the effect on the comet's orbit mentioned, or anything about how the calculation was made?
Just fyi the linked answer also cites Wikipedia's Halley's Comet
 and the passage cites page 86 of P. Lancaster-Brown (1985). Halley & His Comet. Blandford Press. ISBN 0-7137-1447-6.

A:

Alexis Clairaut designed and led the detailed calculations of planetary perturbations to estimate the return-date in 1759 of what then became known as Halley's comet.  The most detailed account of the work (in which Clairaut was assisted in the calculations by the young Jerome de Lalande and by Mme Lepaute) seems to be that given by Curtis Wilson in the Journal for the History of Astronomy v.24 (1993) pp.1-15: "Clairaut's Calculation of the Eighteenth-century Return of Halley's Comet".  
The full text is available online. (I can hardly add anything except to mention that while Wilson cites early sources, he does not attribute to Halley any calculation of the planetary perturbations of the comet by Jupiter or Saturn.  It seems that Halley's contribution here was indeed to identify the probable periodic nature of a number of comets, and to  calculate their orbital paths on an unperturbed parabolic and then elliptical basis.) 

