Q:

What led to the rise of Göttingen?

this is a counter part to my other question: What led to the fall of Göttingen?.
Göttingen was a major university in which many famous physicists and mathematicians lived. It was located in Germany, almost in the middle of nowhere to my understanding. So what led to its rise, why did anyone even decide to go there in the first place, the earliest piece of history on it I could find was the Göttingen Seven  which was somewhat irrelevant. So who was the first major professor there, and why did the university become so prevalent.

A:

As it always happens with the great scientific centers, it is a combination of several factors. Money. People (usually governments, sometimes private people) who are willing to spend this money to establish and maintain a scientific center. And their ability to hire the best available people. And to create a good environment for them.
And a long period of development in the conditions of prevailing peace and prosperity.
In the case of Gottingen, it was founded by King George II (of England) who also happened to be the "elector" of the land of Hannover. (This part of Germany belonged to the British crown for long time, I suppose until the unification of Germany). King George and his descendants supported the university with the explicit goal to
"promote the ideas of academic freedom and enlightenment". So probably this was the best such place in Germany before the unification. The other German rulers before the unification probably had less money and/or were less willing to spend it on science.
They managed to get people like Lichtenberg, Schopenhauer, Heine and Grimm brothers, not speaking of Gauss. 
Gauss spent there most of his long life, so probably he liked the conditions there:-)
Consult the Wikipedia for a long list of famous people who worked and studied there. 
When you have a person like Gauss for a long time, this makes the place even more attractive, both to the best students and best researchers.
So in the next generation they had Riemann and Dirichlet....
Bismark who was a student there, later unified Germany.
And I think he was also interested in maintaining the place. 

A:

The university, of course, has a page on its history.
The university was founded in 1734 by George II - yes, the king of great Britain; he was of the House of Hanover, after all - although it was first run by Minister Gerlach Adolph Baron of Münchhausen. While the first lectures took place in 1734, the university did not properly open until 1737. From the start, Münchhausen wanted it to be a place of high standing. Here are the first true intellectuals he brought:

Albrecht von Haller, physician, natural scientist, and poet (in Göttingen 1736–1756)
Johann David Michaelis, theologist and orientalist (in Göttingen 1746–1791)
Christian Gottlob Heyne, archaeologist and library director (in Göttingen 1763–1812)
Georg Christoph Lichtenberg, physicist, philosopher, and writer (in Göttingen 1770–1799)
August Ludwig von Schlözer, publisher and historian (in Göttingen 1769–1809)

As you can see, these guys predate the Göttingen Seven by quite a lot!
To add to the university's prestige, it retained a close relationship with The Göttingen Academy of Sciences, founded in 1751. Together, the institutions made Göttingen a renowned center for learning. The university continued to be famous by attracting many great thinkers, among them Benjamin Franklin and Carl Friedrich Gauss.

A:

As to your question "why did the university [at Göttingen] become so prevalent":
The answer is surely "Felix Klein". A dynamic, versatile, and brilliant mathematician, he was also a talented organizer and administrator. The list of first-rate mathematicians he brought to Göttingen is probably too long to fit within the allowable limits of a SE answer; some details can be found at wiki. As editor he similarly transformed Mathematische Annalen into a leading journal.

