Q:

When did the concept of probability density explicitly appear in mathematics?

I was reading the wikipedia article about the normal distribution and it's attribution by some historians of science to De Moivre(althought he lacked the concept of the probability density function) and I was wondering as to when was the probability density function defined.

A:

The answer depends somewhat on what "explicitly" means. The appearance of continuous distributions, and their densities, is generally attributed to Simpson. Namely, his 1757 response to Bayes's critique of his 1755 letter on de Moivre's theory of errors. As Stigler writes in The History of Statistics:

"Simpson's 1757 republication of the letter incorporated one other
  change - three and a half pages of additional material that is frequently
  cited now as the first publication of a continuous error distribution... Simpson
  (1757, p. 71) proposed to consider the situation ''when the error admits of
  any value whatever, whole or broken, within the proposed limits, or when
  the result of each observation is supposed to be accurately known." His
  analysis, in the spirit of the time, consisted of viewing the interval of possible errors (AB in Figure 2.3) as being divided into an indefinitely
  large number of indefinitely small subintervals, and effectively passing to
  the limit in his earlier expression for the discrete case...
In modern terminology, Simpson's idea is that we may consider the
  triangle ABD as a probability density along the axis AB... the curve AFEFB represented the
  probability density for the mean error. He integrated the resulting density
  to find that the probability that the mean of t errors did not exceed
  $(1 - y/t)\times$CA in absolute value".

This said, Simpson is certainly very far from abstract notions of probability distribution and density. Bayes's 1764 essay is noted as a step forward, "remarkable for its careful treatment of probability densities,
treating all probabilities as areas and not relying (in the later manner
of both French and English mathematicians) on the interpretation of densities
as attaching infinitesimal probability to points" (as Maxwell did as late as 1860). But he still deals with a specific density function. Finally, Laplace wrote a number of memoirs on the "error curve" in 1770s, where the said curve (density) gets denoted generally $\phi(x)$. He was aiming at the normal distribution density, but did not succeed at identifying it at the time, and had to treat his $\phi(x)$ more abstractly:

"All
  early workers, from Simpson on, accepted it as given that the curve should
  be symmetrical and that the chance of an error should decrease toward
  zero as the magnitude of the error increased. Laplace himself had repeated
  these conditions in his 1774 memoir, as I have noted. The problem
  was that there were too many possibilities, and the choice of just one was
  critical to the mean to be obtained. As Laplace wrote, "But of an infinite
  number of possible functions, which choice is to be preferred?"
Earlier writers had confronted the choice of an error curve by making
  an arbitrary selection. Simpson, for example, had based his choice of the
  uniform and triangular distributions upon mathematical expediency. For
  his limited aim (showing that an arithmetic mean was better than a single
  observation) this arbitrariness was not a major drawback - his audience
  only needed to accept the distribution as qualitatively correct in order to
  believe his qualitative conclusion - that averaging increased accuracy.
  Laplace, however, was attempting an exact computation, and he needed
  both a convincing case for any choice of $\phi(x)$ he might make and a mathematical
  analysis equal to the task of calculating the best mean for that curve."

As for the terminology, it is quite recent. According to Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Probability & Statistics Markoff came up with "Wahrscheinlichkeitsdichte" (probability density) only in 1912, and the "distribution function", of which it it the derivative, only appears in von Mises's Grundlagen der Wahrscheinlichkeitsrechnung  (1919).

