Q:

How did German become the language of science?

Recently, I read an interesting article about how English replaced German as the language in which scientists communicate. But how did German become the leading language in the first place? In the early years of what we could call modern science, around the time when Galileo worked, I would expect latin to dominate the scientific discussion. What happened that scientists switched to German?

A:

My impression is that German never was "THE language of science" in the same sense as English in now. After the switch from Latin to modern languages, there was no single dominating language of science. Up to the middle 20-s century there were at least 4 common languages
of science: French, German, English and Italian.
Let me state more precisely what I mean: French scientists wrote in French (not in German),
English/American wrote in English (not in German, not in French). And so on.
Scientists of other nations had an option: to write in their native language or in one
of these 4 "languages of science". For example Russians wrote in Russian, English, German and French.
This multilingual situation prevailed in Mathematics until 1970-s. Since the end of 70-s
very few Germans write mathematics in German. There are still many French mathematicians
writing in French, but a talk in French in an international conference is really rare.
But it is incorrect to say that German (or French) ever was THE "language of science".
Until 1970-s the Germans wrote in German, the English wrote in English and the French
wrote in French. These languages were "one of the languages of science" each.
EDIT. It seems to be true, however that in terms of VOLUME of published scientific works German was on the first place in the 19th and early 20th century. (I can confirm this by some statistics I made myself). But still English, French and Italian scientists wrote in their own languages. Nowadays the situation is very different: most scientists of any nation write in English.

A:

One reason is geography: German is spoken in the middle of Europe and contains  - or is close to - many eminent academic cities. Germany was not a homogeneous country (like e.g. France) before 1871, but a collection of small dynastic states, which were culturally quite diverse. The protestant part of Germany had a strict work ethic and there was also a substantial Jewish population, all of which contributed to the development of mathematics and science.
The age of Enlightenment ('Aufklärung') and the romantic period played an important role in Germany and lead to a surge of interest in topics such as nature, philosophy, and also science and math. Traces of this period are still visible in the classical curriculum of some high schools ('humanistisches Gymnasium'). 
Finally, the German language is good at creating new composites: for example 'Eigenwert' (eigenvalue), 'Nullsummenspiel' (a game without favorable outcome), 'Gedankenexperiment' (thought experiment) and so on. This is a very convenient thing in scientific discourse, and many of these terms have been borrowed or translated into English.

A:

The change from Latin to German wasn't instantaneous. True, Galileo was one of the first to break the mold and write in his native language, but he used Italian, not German. Newton, too, used English (though, admittedly, also a lot of Latin). There doesn't appear to be a sudden shift to German around this time period. The change was gradual. As the article you mentioned says,

Then it [Latin] began to fracture. Latin became one of many languages in which science was done.

Why the change? I found that this put it best:

But researchers began to move away from Latin in the 17th century. Galileo, Newton, and others started writing papers in their native tongues in part to make their work more accessible and in part as a reaction to the Protestant Reformation and the declining influence of the Catholic Church.

After all, how many people in the 17th century were fluent in Latin?

I'd say that German became the language of science sometime in the late 19th century, growing until the late part of the early half of the 20th century. Physics exemplifies this. Look at this list of physicists:

Max Planck
Albert Einstein
Werner Heisenberg
Emmy Noether
Heinrich Hertz
Wilhelm Rontgen

There were also many Austrians in physics:

Erwin Schrodinger
Wolfgang Pauli
Ernst Mach

Also, Germany was strong in mathematics:

Bernhard Riemann
David Hilbert
Felix Klein
Hermann Weyl

