Q:

How did Milikan know that oil drops would acquire only few electron charges?

In the book of Experiment in Modern Physics, by Melissinos, at page 2, it is given that:

2. The Millikan Oil Drop Experiment
In 1909, R. Millikan reported a reliable method for measuring ionic charges. It consists of observing the motion of small oil droplets under the influence of an electric field. Usually the drops acquire a few electron charges and thus conventional fields impart to them velocities that permit isolation of a drop and continuous observation for a considerable length of time; further, the mass of the oil droplet remains almost constant (there is very slight evaporation) during these long observation times.

But how did they know this in that time?

A:

I think the way Millikan deduced the number of electrons was, aside from the current state of knowledge as Conifold relates, by taking lots and lots of measurements (certainly that's what I did when repeating the experiment in undergrad).  When you plot the calculated charge on each droplet, you see the points on the graph are not a continuum but rather they show up at quantized separations.  Since the uncertainty in the electron count for a droplet containing, say, 100 electrons is likely to be several electrons' worth, concentrate on the points with the fewest quantized charge units. [edit: to clarify, I mean the error bars on such drops are several electron charge units wide] From that you can make a pretty good guess there's no "fractional" charge that would occur if your estimate of the electron charge were twice the truth.
So, while the number of electrons in a given droplet may follow some statistical distribution, making use of the least ambiguous subset of all captured droplets leads to a more reliable answer.

A:

One would think that in the second Melissinos and Napolitano would update on how "reliable" Millikan's method was. Even Wikipedia mentions that according to his own notes he "edited" the data he had to reduce the statistical error, see also Is Millikan's famous oil drop experiment a fraud?
In any case, the idea of electrons and ions was in circulation since 1890-s, when Lorentz's electron theory explained magneto-optics, the  behavior of conductors and non-conductors, etc., using them. Thomson directly observed them in cathode (then Lenard) rays in 1897. Here is from Lorentz's Nobel lecture (1902) devoted to the electron theory:

"The theory of which I am going to give an account represents the physical world as consisting of three separate things, composed of three types of building material: first ordinary tangible or ponderable matter, second electrons, and third ether... The covibrating particles must, we concluded, be electrically charged; so we can conveniently call them "electrons", the name that was introduced later by Johnstone Stoney...
At the same time, a start was made on a general theory which ascribed all electromagnetic processes taking place in ponderable substances to electrons. In this theory an electrical charge is conceived as being a surplus of positive or negative electrons, but a current in a metallic wire is considered to be a genuine progression of these particles, to which is ascribed a certain mobility in conductors, whereas in non-conductors they are bound to certain equilibrium positions, about which, as has already been said, they can vibrate.
If we combine the results to which Zeeman's experiments lead with those which can be deduced from the colour dispersion of gases, on the hypothesis that it is the same type of electrons which is under consideration in both cases, we come to the conclusion that the charge of an electron is of the same order of size as the charge of an electrolytic ion. The mass, however, is much smaller... the principal thing is that, as we have remarked before, the electron is very small compared with the atom. The latter is a composite structure, which can contain many electrons, some mobile, some fixed."

Do not think that Einstein's 1905 theory immediately abolished ether, in 1900-s even Einstein himself occasionally used the ether talk. In any case, one could simply replace "ether" with "electromagnetic field" in most places. Millikan’s and Fletcher's apparatus had a parallel pair of horizontal metal plates separated by an insulator with a uniform electric field created in between. A fine mist of oil droplets was sprayed into a chamber above the plates. Oil drops were charged either through friction with the spraying nozzle or by ionising radiation from an X-ray tube.
According to Lorentz's theory, the charging was the result of a few extra electrons sticking to the droplet (too many would be repelled by the excess negative charge). By  changing the voltage across the plates Millikan could make the droplets rise, fall or stand still. From the latter (he claimed) he determined the charges to be small integer multiples of $1.5924(17)×10^{−19}\,{\rm C}$, about 0.6% below the current value. Feynman describes the comical aftermath when subsequent experimenters gradually increased the Millikan's value to $1.602176487(40)×10^{−19}\,{\rm C}$:

"Why didn't they discover the new number was higher right away? It's a thing that scientists are ashamed of — this history — because it's apparent that people did things like this: When they got a number that was too high above Millikan's, they thought something must be wrong — and they would look for and find a reason why something might be wrong. When they got a number close to Millikan's value they didn't look so hard. And so they eliminated the numbers that were too far off, and did other things like that..."

