Q:

What was the answer to this paradox before Cantor?

I do not remember the name/source of this paradox,but I remember I have discussed this with mathematicians and non mathematicians at least 5 times.
It goes like this: 

"Every point of a line has length $0$ and every line segment consists
  of points.     So the length of the line segment is the sum
  $0+0+\ldots=0$"

which seems like a paradox.
Of course the number of points on a line segment is uncountable so the "summation" actually does not contain every point,so there is an obvious mistake there and we are done.
My question is:
Was this paradox discussed (or answered) before Cantor?

A:

Zeno (around 500 BC) raised this paradox to argue against the notion of "plurality", arguing that a belief in the existence of many things rather than only one leads to absurd conclusions: If there are many things, they must be both small and large; so small as not to have size, but so large as to be unlimited.
See section 2.2 of Zeno's paradoxes in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. The following quote is from a discussion of Zeno's book on paradoxes by Simplicius (who writing one thousand year after Zeno apparently still had his book, which now is lost):

If a thing has no magnitude or bulk or mass, it would not exist. For
  if it should be added to something else that exists, it would not make
  it any bigger. For if it were of no size and was added, it cannot
  increase in size. And so it follows immediately that what is added is
  nothing. But if when it is subtracted, the other thing is no smaller,
  nor is it increased when it is added, clearly the thing being added or
  subtracted is nothing.

This seems to be the earliest source for the paradox, but not its resolution, which had to wait several millennia for the development of the notion of a distance function, which allows you to compute the length of an uncountable infinity of points.

A:

Aristotle gave the first systematic rebuttal of Zeno, in particular he wrote in Physics: "…a line cannot be composed of points, the line being continuous and the point indivisible". According to Aristotle, a line can be composed only of smaller, indefinitely divisible lines, and not of points without magnitude. This was the mainstream view until the "dissociation" of continuum by Cantor and Dedekind at the end of 19-th century. Under the new paradigm the paradox was resolved by the Lebesgue measure theory, which postulated that length is only countably additive, so the continuum wide summation of point lengths is invalid. This vindicated Aristotle's view: in terms of magnitude continuum can not be assembled from points.
The idea that continuum is a "set of points" leads to a number of conceptual problems, this being one of them. Others include its well-orderability, which strains credulity and implies existence of Lebesgue non-measurable sets, and the undecidability of the continuum hypothesis. A lot of effort was expended, by Zermelo, Lebesgue and others, to reconcile the intuition of continuum with "arithmetical" set theory. However, despite the objections of intuitionists like Hermann Weyl, in the end the benefits to analysis far outweighed the costs for most practitioners. Weyl's views echoed Aristotle's:"The notion that a set is a “gathering” brought together by infinitely many individual arbitrary acts of selection, assembled and then surveyed as a whole by consciousness, is nonsensical; “inexhaustibility” is essential to the infinite... Exact time- or space-points are not the ultimate, underlying atomic elements of the duration 
or extension given to us in experience."

A:

You might look at Galileo's discussion of infinity in  "Discourses and Mathematical Demonstrations Relating to Two New Sciences": e.g. look up Galileo's paradox". 

