Q:

Was evolution ever discussed (perhaps using different terms) prior to Darwin?

It's common knowledge that Darwin is considered the father of evolution, but even humans have been breeding animals (and probably themselves) selectively for specific traits for thousands of years. How much of the theory of evolution actually existed before Darwin caused big waves? 

A:

Some more pre-Charles Darwin discussions:

Erasmus Darwin (Charles' grandfather): http://www.ucmp.berkeley.edu/history/Edarwin.html
Jean-Batiste Lamarck: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lamarckism
Robert Chambers "Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation" (heavily criticized at the time and with political undercurrents)

James Hutton also wrote on the topic and his ideas sound suspiciously Darwinian (it should be noted that Hutton also had his own farm and was aware of selective breeding). However, Hutton was noted for his obtuse writings (his geological ideas would have been ignored if it were not for John Playfair), and more importantly, his evolutionary writings were unpublished and only discovered in the 20th century.

A:

The first known discussion concerning evolution are, to my knowledge, pre-Socratic philosophers. A more well known ancient publication evoking the idea may be De Rerum Natura, by Roman philosopher Lucretius.
This answers your title question, I don't have sufficient knowledge to satisfactorily address the question in the body of the text. It might be worth it to look into Maupertuis's work on "natural modifications", as he called them.
(Kirk, Geoffrey; Raven, John; Schofield, John (1984a). The Presocratic Philosophers: A Critical History with a Selection of Texts (3rd ed.). Chicago: The University of Chicago Press. pp. 100–321)

A:

To add to the two previous answers:
Bernard-Germain-Etienne de Lacepède in "Histoire naturelle des poissons" (Natural History of Fishes) 1798 wrote the following: 

Une espèce peut s'éteindre de deux manières. Elle peut périr toute entière, et dans un temps très-court, lorsqu'une catastrophe violente bouleverse la portion de la surface du globe sur laquelle elle vivoit, [...] Mais, indépendamment de ces grands coups que la Nature frappe rarement et avec éclat, une espèce disparoît par une longue suite de nuances insensibles et d'altérations successives.[...] Troisièmement, l'espèce peut subir un si grand nombre de modifications dans ses formes et dans ses qualités, que, sans rien perdre de son aptitude au mouvement vital, elle se trouve, par sa dernière conformation et par ses dernières propriétés, plus éloignée de son premier état que d'une espèce étrangère : elle est alors métamorphosée en une espèce nouvelle.

which translates roughly to the following [Disclaimer: own translation, hence poor quality]:  

"A species can become extinct in two ways. It can die out entirely, and in a very short time, when a violent catastrophe shatters the portion of the earth's surface it lives on [...] But independantly to these big blows that Nature strike rarely and resoundingly, a species disappears by a long serie of imperceptible differences and successives alterations. [...] Thirdly, the species can undergo such a large number of modifications in its forms and qualities that, without losing its aptitude to the vital movement, it finds itself, in its last conformation and its last properties, further away from its first state than another species: it is then metamorphosed into a new species."

Erasmus Darwin was already named by @winwaed so I won't expand but here is an extract of his Zoonomia (1801):

As air and water are supplied to animals in sufficient profusion, the three great objects of desire, which have changed the forms of many animals by their exertions to gratify them, are those of lust, hunger, and security.

This prefigures quite obviously the notion of natural selection.
Jean-Baptiste Lamarck was also already quoted by @winwaed, but to expand on him: he expressed the idea that species were transforming through time for the first time in 1801 in its "Discours d'Ouverture du cours de Zoologie, donné dans le Museum d'Histoire Naturelle l'an 8 de la République" (litt.: "Opening speech of the Zoology course, given in the Natural History Museum in the year 8 of the Republic"). He thought in particular that species were transforming to adapt to their environment. He later expanded more on that in his books (in particular 'Philosophie zoologique' in 1809).
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, more famously known as a poet, was also a naturalist, and a "transformist" (as pre-Darwinian evolutionist were often called, by opposition to "fixists"). here is what he wrote in "Story of My Botanical Studies" (1831) [extract found on his wikipedia page]:

The ever-changing display of plant forms, which I have followed for so many years, awakens increasingly within me the notion: The plant forms which surround us were not all created at some given point in time and then locked into the given form, they have been given... a felicitous mobility and plasticity that allows them to grow and adapt themselves to many different conditions in many different places.

One of the main tool in recognizing that two species evolved from the same ancester is the homology, and there is quite a string of researchers that led to the refinement of this concept, among them: Michel Adanson (1727-1806) established a classification of beings based on "the greatest number of similarities" and Etienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire (1772-1844) who not only formalized the concept of homology (under the name "analogy" at the time) but also thought that species changed according to their living conditions (according to the Encyclopedia britannica entry on him).

