Q:

Where does the term elasticity (of a function) come from?

Elasticity of a function is a mathematical concept that is widely used in economics. In particular, price elasticity of demand or supply. But generally elasticity in economics is the measurement of how an economic variable responds to a change in another.
Yet I found the term ambiguous and I don't understand why we didn't choose "sensitivity" or "reactivity" instead. To make matters worse, economists often call "Price elasticity of the demand" only, "Elasticity of the demand".
What is the history of the term "elasticity"? Why do we use this term?

A:

The term elasticity was first used in print by Alfred Marshall (1885, p. 260):

We may want to find a measure of what may be called the elasticity of demand; that is, when a fall of price leads to an increase in the amount demanded, we may want to know the ratio in which the percentage by which the amount demanded has increased stands to the percentage by which the price has fallen.

Marshall then elaborated on elasticity in Principles of Economics (1890, pp. 162 ff):

his willingness to purchase the thing stretches itself out a great deal under the action of a small inducement: the elasticity of his demand, we may say, is great.

I agree with OP that sensitivity would have been a better word.
But it seems that Marshall somehow thought of "stretching" and so used the word elasticity instead. His enormous influence is such that we are now stuck with this word.

Note that economists had been at least somewhat aware of the notion of elasticity, but it was Marshall who highlighted it and made it explicit.
John Maynard Keynes (1925):

I do not think that Marshall did economists any greater service than by the explicit introduction of the idea of "elasticity." ...
it is rather remarkable that the notion was not more clearly disentangled either by Mill or by Jevons. ...
The way in which Marshall introduces Elasticity, without any suggestion that the idea is novel, is remarkable and characteristic. The field of investigation opened up by this instrument of thought is again one where the full fruits have been reaped by Professor Pigou rather than by Marshall himself. ...
Mrs. Marshall tells me that he hit on the notion of elasticity, as he sat on the roof at Palermo shaded by the bath-cover in 1881, and was highly delighted with it.

A:

The term elasticity in economics  is almost surely linked to the concept of elasticity in physics.
While the introduction of the term elasticity in economics is attributed to Marshall, as far as I know, we haven’t an explicit source about the reason why Marshall chose this term.
But we can make conjectures that are not arbitrary and are based on relevant sources.
It is well known that the mathematization of economics in the second half of the XIX century referred widely to physics, and mathematical economists as Edgeworth, Walras, Pareto, Marshall himself, knew physics, and referred often to physics in their works.
In particular, Pareto wrote his graduation thesis in engineering on Principles of the theory of elastic solid bodies (Engl. transl).
Marshall knew their works, as he explicitly quotes  them in his Principles of Economics
(1890)
.
Moreover, in  Appendix C, sec. 2. The method in economics, physics and biology, of the  Principles,  he  explicitly compares the methodology of physics and economics:

It is true that the forces with which economics deals have one advantage for
deductive treatment in the fact that their method of combination is, as Mill observed, are
that of mechanics rather than of chemistry. That is to say, when we know the action of
two economic forces separately—as for instance the influences which an increase in
the rate of wages and a diminution in the difficulty of the work in a trade will
severally exert on the supply of labour in it—we can predict fairly well their conjoint
action, without waiting for specific experience of it .[…] (p. 449)

Marshall himself had a degree in mathematics and physics at the University of Cambridge.
So,  the hypothesis that Marshall had in mind the terminology of physics and  the elasticity of a body, or the stretching of a wire, is more than  reasonable (even if the concept of  elasticity in economics and in physics are of course different).
$$***$$
In many economics texts it is taken for granted that the term elasticity in economics comes from  the terminology of physics.
For an example,
Lionello Rossi, Del concetto di elasticità in economia (Engl. Tr. About the Concept of Elasticity in Economics), 1932
In this article, Rossi seems to take for granted that the concept of elasticity in economics originates from physics, and discusses the actual use in economics of the term elasticity  and other terms coming from mechanics as rigidity and anelastic, comparing their use  in economic and in physics.
For instance,  he writes:

We try […] to clarify  the concepts outlined above, and we start
making few remarks about the  homonymous  mechanical concepts[…]
In mechanics a body is defined elastic if, when deformed under the
action of a stimulus, has the property to resume its primitive form
[…]
The concept of rigidity, instead, defines the greater or smaller
deformability, and therefore it is not antithetical to the concept of
elasticity […]. That is, rigidity denotes a further property of
elastic bodies. Anelasticity, instead, it a concept antithetical to
that of elasticity[…].
That said about mechanical concepts, what about homonymous concepts of
economics?
The only concept that in the common use has a perfect analogy with the
concept of mechanics is that of rigidity […]; and the authors seem to
agree about it.
Instead, the concept of elasticity, would be, according to Marshall,
nothing more than the opposite of the concept of rigidity[…].
Whatever the mechanical concepts are, in economics the Marshallian
definition of elasticity as variability and antithetical to rigidity
seems obvious, in relations to the denominations that entered the
common usage, reserving the name of anelasticity to a different
concept, conform to the mechanical one […]. (pp. 20-21, my transl.)

