Q:

Who did first use the Method of Characteristics?

Which mathematician did introduce the Method of Characteristics for solving linear Partial differential equations? 
I some papers I saw that Saint Venant, Lagrange, Cauchy or Riemann were attributed with this method. But who was the first mathematician who introduced the method, which is taught in universities?

A:

[EDIT: check the (*) for a potential earlier reference in Lagrange] The first mathematician (who used the methods of characteristics for differential equations) seems to be Paul Charpit de Villecourt  (?-1784). According to I. Grattan-Guinness et S. Engelsman, The manuscripts of Paul Charpit, Historia Mathematica, vol. 9, 1982, p. 65-75:

He presented his paper on partial differential equations to the
Académie on June 30, 1784, but he died in Paris on December 28 of that
year.

The memoir was lost, then found again. Lagrange learnt about it in 1793 only (* see below for a comment). There is a series of papers on that topic  by N. Saltykow, such as Méthodes classiques d'intégration des équations aux dérivées partielles du premier ordre à une fonction inconnue, 1931. Page 7:

Charpit a eu, d'abord, la chance de formuler, le premier, les
équations différentielles ordinaires des caractéristiques, que l'on
attribue fréquemment à Lagrange

with the poor translation:

Charpit was lucky enough to be the first to express the ordinary differential
equations of characteristics, which are often attributed to Lagrange.

Full proof (in a modern sense) was apparently given by Jacobi.
(*) From a comment by Gerald, on page 198 of Mathematik für Physiker (Band 2: Gewöhnliche und partielle Differentialgleichungen, mathematische Grundlagen der Quantenmechanik), 2014 by Helmut Fischer and Helmut Kaul, it is said that:

Die Charakteristikenmethode geht auf Lagrange zuruck. Nachdem er 1772
die nichtlineare DG $\frac{∂u}{∂y}  = f(x, y, u, \frac{∂u}{∂x})$ auf
eine quasilineare DG zurückgeführt und 1774 eine Theorie für die
allgemeine Lösung aufgestellt hatte, gab er 1779
Differentialgleichungen für die Charakteristiken quasilinearer
Probleme an. Eine geometrische Begründung der Charakteristikenmethode
fand 1784 Gaspard Monge. Pfaff 1815 und Cauchy 1819 erweiterten diese
für $n > 2$.

