Q:

What did Westinghouse use for power to drive Tesla's generators during the 1892 World's Fair

I did manage to find technical drawings of the World's fair after considerable searching but probably I am not savvy enough to find the right items. In one of the drawings it does show what appears to be almost a geothermal structure of some type.  Other drawings clearly show the alternating current generation room , and in fact that was one of the main attractions at the fair, but I cannot make out where the drive shaft is going to make it spin. Does anyone happen to be a late 1800 historian of the "alternating current wars" will probably know off the top of his head.  Thank you 

A:

The  Tesla Society has a photo of a "Allis-Corliss Engine."
Wikipedia identifies this as a large steam-powered engine. 
And over at vintagemachinery.org,  it is stated explicitly that

The duty of the World's Fair [Corliss] engine will, however, be of a different
  nature from that of the Corliss engine at the Centennial, which
  transmitted its power to the main jack shaft. The Allis engine is
  belted by two belts made by the Page Belting Company, of Concord, N.
  H., to two Westinghouse dynamos, each of a capacity of 10,000
  incandescent light. The speed necessary for these machines to produce
  20,000 light of sixteen candle-power is 200 revolutions. The
  illustration shows only one belt, but when completed the second belt
  will be directly over the f1rst connected to the second dynamo
  immediately beyond. The fly-wheel is thirty feet in diameter, and at
  sixty revolutions, will have a periphery speed of over 5500 feet per
  minute. The face of the wheel is seventy-six inches, not as large as
  many others the Allis Company have built, but in construction it is
  probably stronger than any of its size ever made. It has twelve arms
  and the rim is made up of the same number of segments. It weighs
  complete 135,900 pounds, the rim itself weighing 88,000 pounds.

I'd add in passing that, having lived on Chicago's South Side only a few blocks from the Midway,  I can attest there's no chance of a Hydro-powered source anywhere near there :-) 

