Q:

When Indian mathematicians learn of Euclid's Elements?

Transfer of mathematical knowledge from India to Europe (such as a positional number system with zero) allowed Europeans to develop arithmetic. But was there also a reverse direction (probably via Arab mathematicians) in which knowledge was transferred from Europe to India?   
Especially I'm curious when Euclid's Elements (probably the most known ancient mathematical book) was introduced to India.

A:

According to The Hindu Business Line, quoting the scholar TA Sarasvati Amma:

It was only in the 18th century, nearly 2,000 years after active contact of Indians with the Greeks, that Euclid’s Elements were translated into Sanskrit and even then perhaps the example of the Arabs provided the inspiration.

TL/DR;
Concerning Indian mathematics at about the time Euclid, according to Frits Staal, professor of Philosophy and South/Southeast Asian Studies at UC Berkley:

The ancient Greeks developed logic and a notion of rationality as deduction best exhibited by Euclid’s geometry. These discoveries contributed substantially to the development of Western science. Ancient Indian civilisation was an oral tradition and the oral transmission of the tradition became the first object of scientific inquiry.
Thus arose two human sciences, closely related to each other in their formal structure: the sciences of ritual and language.To begin with, while a number of key contributions were made by Indian mathematicians, they somehow remained in complete darkness about conic sections. These are simply the various dissections of an hourglass (or, a double cone) which are the ellipse, the parabola and the hyperbola. The importance of these curves in the history of science up to the time of Isaac Newton is unparalleled in geometry. Planets were found to move in elliptical orbits, cannonballs and projectiles fell in a parabolic arch under the influence of gravity, and shadows on sundials moved in a hyperbolic path.
The other omissions concern solid geometry, and the existence of only five Platonic solids, namely — tetrahedron, cube, octahedron, icosahedron and the dodecahedron. These five elemental solids were used since the time of Plato in pondering the structure of atoms, crystals and matter in general.

Thus, according to Staal, ancient Indian mathematicians were primarily concerned with a scientific exploration of ritual and mysticism, applying their geometry to things like the construction of elaborate altars.
Further reading: History of Geometry - wikipedia

