Q:

Did Newton find the trajectory of a body moving in uniform gravity under the quadratic resistance law (the ballistic problem)?

I'm very confused by contradicting accounts of a supposed solution by Newton to the problem of finding the trajectory of a projectile moving under uniform gravity against resistance that is proportional to the square of the projectile's speed. Some sources state that he did solve it in the second edition of the Principia (not the first!), but did not solve the more general problem, when an arbitary power law is assumed for the resistance. According to them, this remarkably general problem was solved by John Bernoulli. Other sources claim that Newton did not even solve the quadratic case. 
So did Newton find the quadratic law trajectory or not? And if he didn't, what kind of propositions are there in Section 2 of Book 2 of the Principia? I assume that Book 2 of the Principia marks the beginning of modern ballistics; that's why I consider this question important.
Also, i have another question, which is too concerned with the later part of Newton's life. The question is about the problem of orthogonal trajectories which newton solved in 1716 by deriving the general differential equation which the orthogonal family satisfies. I want to ask what is so important about this question ; it doesn't look hard - seriously, even i can solve it. So why so many books attach importance to this solution?, i understand the important connection with potential theory (field lines and equipotenial lines), but why several books declare that Newton's solution to this problem was one of the ingenius achievements of his later life?

A:

No, he did not. Not in the first (1687), not in the second (1713), and not in the third (1726) edition, below I quote from Cajori's edition of Motte's translation of the latter. Since he was unable to find the trajectory  analytically he tried to approximate it by pre-chosen curves. In the process he 
apparently messed up with the semi-circles in the first edition of Principia, which Johann (=John) Bernoulli pointed out in 1712. Newton fixed the error in the next year's second edition, without mentioning Bernoulli. The problem was offered as a challenge in 1717, when Bernoulli solved it (in a parametric form) as a particular case of the problem with resistance proportional to an arbitrary power of speed.
Newton did find the trajectory for the linear resistance law, suggested by Galileo, in Section 1 of Book II. But he argued that the square law is correct for rare media like the air, and even that it can be derived from his laws of motion! Section 2 examines this case, first without gravity, and then for the fall in a straight line. But the closest Newton comes to the general trajectory is when he studies the inverse problem under Proposition X of Book II:

"Suppose the uniform force of gravity to tend directly to the plane of the
  horizon, and the resistance to be as the product of the density of the medium
  and the square of the velocity: it is proposed to find the density of
  the medium in each place, which shall make the body move in any given
  curved line, the velocity of the body, and the resistance of the medium in
  each place."

He considers four types of trajectories - semi-circle, parabola, hyperbola with oblique and vertical asymptote, and generalized hyperbola with similar asymptotes - and reasons what kind of medium distribution would produce them. His heuristic conclusion for the uniformly dense medium is this:

...the line which a projectile describes in an uniformly resisting medium approaches nearer to these hyperbolas than to a parabola. That line is certainly of the hyperbolic kind, but about the vertex it is more distant
  from the asymptotes, and in the parts remote from the vertex draws nearer to them than these hyperbolas here described. 

Newton's consideration of the semi-circle and hyperbolic cases appears to be influenced by Tartaglia's Nova Scientia (1537), one of the first books applying mathematics to ballistics. Hackborn's On Motion in a Resisting Medium: a Historical Perspective details the Bernoulli affair:

"A “serious error” in Newton's analysis for the semi-circular trajectory in Proposition 10 of the first edition of Principia had unexpected consequences. Johann Bernoulli discovered the error and communicated it to Newton through his nephew, Nikolaus Bernoulli, who was visiting London in September 1712. Newton then tailored a long paste-up correction for the second (1713) edition, already printed, without citing Bernoulli's help... Eventually, responding to a 1717 challenge from Oxford professor John Keill to “[f]ind the curve which a projectile describes” subject to gravity and fluid drag varying as the square of its speed, Johann Bernoulli found an expression for this curve in the case of drag varying as an arbitrary power of speed".

