Q:

Was Gottlob Frege hospitalized by Russell's Paradox?

After receiving the infamous letter from Bertrand Russell, Gottlob Frege allegedly had a mental breakdown and had to be hospitalized.
I've seen various informal references to this, such as:

Russell's Paradox - Jeffrey Kaplan - YouTube says:
"Frege got the letter and it broke him, physically he had a breakdown and had to be hospitalized upon reading this two page letter.".
Russell's Paradox — haloboy777 says:
"This paradox literally caused him to go to hospital.".

Is there a more formal detailed description of this hospitalization?

A:

I am almost sure that this is a fiction added for dramatic purposes. First, neither Monk (who writes specifically about this episode and who has a certain flair for the dramatic, and so would presumably include this episode in his account if it were true) nor Dale Jacquette mentions anything of the sort in their accounts of Frege's response to Russell's paradox (incidentally, I do not recommend this biography---cf. this accurate assessment by Peter Smith). Indeed, Dummett even goes out of his way to say that Frege was initially not taken aback by the revelation: "Frege's initial reaction, as shown in his first reply to Russell, was consternation. By his second letter, he had recovered his composure" (Frege: Philosophy of Language, p. xl). In short, there is no evidence for this reaction and plenty of evidence suggesting the opposite.
That is not to say that Frege did not have his share of problems, but they seemed to be caused by personal matters, such as the death of his wife and the difficulty in raising their son alone. Bynum, in his introduction to his edition of the Begriffsschrift, takes this line:

During the decade following the publication of Basic Laws Arithmetic II Frege led a rather unhappy life. There is a widespread myth that Russell's Paradox had left him a disappointed and broken man; but actually, at least until 1914, he believed his logistic programme had been carried out successfully. The problem was rather that his health was not good, and in 1905 death claimed his wife, leaving him to raise their young adopted son alone. (Conceptual Notation and Related Articles, p. 50)

Bynum also notes that in the next paragraph that "Right up to his retirement from Jena University in 1918, however, Frege remained a keen and active scholar, continuing to work on new applications of his 'conceptual notation' and to study critically the views of others on the foundations of mathematics" (ibid.). Hardly the image of a broken man!

