Q:

When did humans realize that there is no air on the Moon?

What is the easiest evidence that there is no air on the Moon?
Frankly speaking, I myself have no idea how to prove it. 

A:

There is no sharp difference between "no air" and "very little air".
That it is "very little" is seen when we observe the Moon with a telescope. An atmosphere
creates a visible haze, especially on the edge of the object (because of refraction). Especially well visible it would be during Solar eclipses. So when people started to observe
the Moon with telescopes it was clear that there is very little air. The more powerful the telescopes that were used, the smaller this "very little" became.
For practical purposes it was clear that there is no air by the end of the 18th century.
For comparison, comets usually have atmospheres (visible with a naked eye) but they are so rarified that "there is no air" on the comets, for all practical purposes.
EDIT. Of course when I say that "it was known in 18-th century" this means "it was known to the experts, scientists". It is easy to show that this was NOT known to the "general public". Many writers (and some movies in the beginning of 20-th centiry) described travels to the Moon, and they did not know or did not care that a human cannot breath there. Jules Verne's travelers, for example has no provision for breathing on the Moon.
Jules Verne wrote in the second half of 19-s century. (That air is necessary for survival
was shown in 17-s century).

A:

Here are three evidences that do not require a telescope.
1) No clouds are ever seen on the moon's surface. This is the weakest evidence, since the clouds could be too small to see with the naked eye, or there could be too little water in the air to form clouds.
2) When the moon moves over a star, occulting it, the star winks out quickly. If the moon had air, the air would take a little time to cause the star to loose its brightness.
3) The terminator, the dividing line between light and darkness on the face of the moon, is jagged due to craters and mountains, but it is very sharp. An atmosphere would make it fuzzy.
Therefore, there was good reason to conclude the lack of air on the moon long before the telescope was invented.

A:

You could also ask when people decided that there was air on Earth. The concept of “air”, as opposed to “wind”, is a relatively advanced (and relatively abstract) notion, which probably came up at about the time of Empedocles (or whoever it was that first posited four elements: earth, fire, water, air). Aristotle taught that air fills the whole space between the surface of the Earth and the sphere of the moon; above that sphere everything is made of the fifth element, aether. This implies that there is no air on the moon. Somehow I don’t think anyone ever thought there was air on the moon.

