Q:

What is the explanation of rope's strength in Galileo's Two New Sciences?

I'm reading Galileo's Two New Sciences. But as other Scientific Book it is hard. I am having trouble in First day, where SIMPLICO asks this question(Page 7): 

"But how can one make a rope one hundred cubits long out of hempen
  fibres which are not more than two or three cubits long, and still
  give it so much strength?"

Then SAGR appeals SALV to answer the question. So SALV goes on to answer it in the following way(Page 8):

[....]How are fibres, each not more than two or three cubits in
  length, so tightly bound together in the case of a rope one hundred
  cubits long that great force [violenza] is required to break it? Now
  tell me, Simplicio, can you not hold a hempen fibre so tightly between
  your fingers that I, pulling by the other end, would break it before
  drawing it away from you? Certainly you can. And now when the fibres
  of hemp are held not only at the ends, but are grasped by the
  surrounding medium through- throughout their entire length is it not
  manifestly more difficult to tear them loose from what holds them than
  to break them ? But in the case of the rope the very act of twisting
  causes the threads to bind one another in such a way that when the
  rope is stretched with a great force the fibres break rather than
  separate from each other. At the point where a rope parts the fibres
  are, as everyone knows, very short, nothing like a cubit long, as they
  would be if the parting of the rope occurred, not by the breaking of
  the filaments, but by their slipping one over the other.

I'm not able to understand what SALV means by example of holding fibers. And how does this answer the question of SIMP?
Thanks. 

A:

In this passage Galileo is explaining how a bundle of multiple short fibers twisted into a rope functions. He is analogizing a fiber in the bundle to a fiber held between fingers, and notes that it would sooner break then slip out because the friction is large when the fingers are pressed together hard. Same with the rope, its fibers would sooner break than be pulled apart, and it is hard to break so many of them at once. This is why a long rope manages to hold together despite its fibers being short, and why they give it so much strength. 

