Q:

Are there theorems that have been truly lost?

Related:

Are there any theorems that become "lost" and discarded over time?
Is there a 'lost calculus'?

The questions above use the term 'lost' to refer to theorems that exist in the literature, but may be so obscure and/or not commonly useful nowadays that few people actually bother to learn them. Are there any theorems that were truly lost - that is, they were reasonably well-received by the mathematical community, were used for some time, and then were truly lost to history, unavailable in any extant literature, textbook, or other resource. All available copies might have been lost due to fire, war, or an intentional purge, or available copies might remain but only in an undeciphered code. Examples would include:

Theorems that have been truly forgotten and literally cannot be learned today from any source
Theorems that were truly lost but were rediscovered many years later, after the original author and all of their students were deceased

I am not talking about theorems that are commonly classified as lost simply due to obscurity or uselessness, but can be learned by a student determined enough to see out applicable resources, instructors, etc. These are what the two questions at the top are speaking of.
To some extent, Fermat's Last Theorem seems to match this, but I understand that there is quite a bit of controversy whether Fermat ever even had a proof to begin with.
To be clear, I am obviously not asking about theorems that nobody has ever heard of, but theorems that we are fairly certain existed (e.g. there are citations to them), but for which all copies have apparently been lost. For example, something like this could answer the question:

We currently have proof that this expression converges when N > 3. A proof that it converges for all N (Smith and Higgins, 1724) has been cited by Jones (1745) and Hooper (1763), but the only known copy of the full proof was reported lost in a fire at the Bodelian Library in 1789. Searches were undertaken in 1812 and 1826 to find a copy in another library, but these searches were unfruitful.

A:

Archimedes' books, Stomachion and The Method of Mechanical Theorems were lost until rediscovered in 2006.  The only known copy is the Archimedes Palimpsest.  These two texts comprise many theorems.  The Method describes Archimedes' very early use of Riemann sums to compute areas and a variation of Dedekind cuts (via a pair, one a strictly monotonically increasing sequence of rationals and the other strictly monotonically decreasing, where the difference between sequence member of the same index decreases below any specified bound) to identify real numbers.
A few other books of Archimedes are still lost, titles known only through indices and reference by other authors: Catoptrica, a work on optics; Principles, explaining the number system used in The Sand Reckoner; On Balances and Levers; On Centers of Gravity; and On the Calendar.  We do not know how many of these theorems we do not know.

A:

The Rogers-Ramanujan identities?

The formulas have a curious history, having been proved by Rogers (1894) in a paper that was completely ignored, then rediscovered (without proof) by Ramanujan sometime before 1913. The formulas were communicated to MacMahon, who published them in his famous text, still without proof. Then, in 1917, Ramanujan accidentally found Roger's 1894 paper while leafing through a journal. In the meantime, Schur (1917) independently rediscovered and published proofs for the identities (Hardy 1999, p. 91).
LINK

A:

I did once write an email to Robert Geroch, because an unpublished paper of his was listed as a bibliographical reference in a paper of Hajicek, which contained a few theorems regarding non-Hausdorff spacetimes. He apparently had no recollection of this paper, and it was never published. I assume there are many other such papers, the myriad of unpublished papers, private communications and unwritten conference presentations.

