Q:

What are Philolaos' “even-odd” numbers?

Number, indeed, has two proper kinds (ιδια ειδη), odd and even, and a
  third mixed together from both, the even-odd(αρτιοπέριττον). Of each
  of the two kinds there are many shapes, of which each thing itself
  gives signs.

(Philolaus F5 = Stobaeus, Eclogae 1.21.7c; tr. Huffman 1993)
The quote is from Horky's Plato and Pythagoreanism, 2013,  (p.141), it is commented twice further in text. On p185 the author writes " the so-called even-odd
(αρτιοπέριττον), which appears to refer to the “one.” Aristotle, too, knew this fragment, and he is explicit in associating the “one” with the “even-odd” class and stating that it is derived from the “even” and the “odd.” On p190, disappointingly, he says "however It is beyond the scope of this study to examine in more detail the significance of the
concept of “mixture” of Forms or classes".
The “one” is not the number preceding two which Ancient greeks apparently did not accept as a number. Philolaos quote might suggest that it is set apart as it has no shape but I am tempted to read it as suggesting that the mixed numbers have multiple shapes, while the numbers from the proper kinds have each just one. 
So what are the 3 kinds of numbers?
The odd numbers are perhaps the ones that we also call odd, (starting with 3), while the even numbers are seen as, so to say, 'strictly even', the powers of 2, that is 2,4,8,16 and the rest, that is 6,10,12 etc. as even-odd. References and comments (or should this be moved to Philosophy SE)?

A:

Aristotle comments on the Pythagorean theory in Met, Book I (A), 986a14-986a22:

these thinkers also consider that number is the principle both as matter for things and as forming their modifications and states, and hold that the elements of number are the even and the odd, and of these the former is unlimited, and the latter limited; and the $1$ proceeds from both of these (for it is both even and odd), and number from the $1$; and the whole heaven, as has been said, is numbers.

But see also Thomas Heath, A History of Greek Mathematics. Volume I (1921), page 71:

The explanation of this strange view might apparently be that the unit, being the principle of all number, even as well as odd, cannott itself be odd and must therefore be called even-odd.
There is, however, another explanation, attributed by Theon of Smyrne to Aristotle, to the effect that the unit when added to an even number makes an odd number, but when added to an odd number makes an even number: which could not be the case if it did not partake of both species.

Philolaus' Fr.5 is discussed at lenght in: Carl Huffman, Philolaus of Croton: Pythagorean and Presocratic, Cambridge UP (1993), page 178-on. There are various interpretations, including the possibility of an interpolation.
See page 190:

In summary, I believe that the even-odd is a derived class of numbers
whose first member is, as the ancient tradition indicates, the one, but which
also includes numbers that consist of even and odd numbers combined in
ratios (e.g. $2 : 1 , 4 : 3$, and $3 : 2$ ) . This class of numbers corresponds to the third class of things in Fr.2, which consists of members that are harmonized from both limiting and unlimited constituents. The even-odd numbers are the numbers by which these harmonized things are known. This connection
of course remains conjectural, but I believe that it is a plausible way
to make sense of both Fr.2 and Fr.5 of Philolaus and Aristotle's testimony
that there was a connection between the even - odd dichotomy and the
unlimited - limited dichotomy, although my suggestion does not identify
the two as Aristotle does.

