Q:

Who coined the term "signal-to-noise ratio" and when did statisticians start using the term "noise" to describe randomness?

I'm writing about the history of the concept of noise and am having trouble tracking down references from when the term "noise" started being associated with statistical noise such as Gaussian Noise and not just things like people talking in the background and RF noise that prevents the interception of radio signals.
An article in Science describing a new telephone device invented by Tuft’s College professor A. E. Dolbear noted that the words sounded “clear without the sputtering and confused noises” of Alexander Bell’s system.  By the 1920s, engineers at AT&T are measuring and comparing the noise between trans-Atlantic radio links and cables.
But I can't find references that go from these early uses of the term "noise" to "Gaussian Noise." The earliest reference I've found so far is Technical Report 189 from the Cruft Laboratory, June 1, 1954.

A:

You are looking at relatively recent references. Noise originally comes from telecommunication analysis in early 1900s well before Shannon; basically, the electrical noise was heard as audible noise- hence the term
"Signal to Noise" can be traced to 1923 article, by
Arnold, H. D., & Espenschied, L. (1923). Transatlantic Radio Telephony 1. Bell System Technical Journal, 2(4), 116-144.

Ratio of Signal to Noise Strength; Words Received. The noise curve of
Fig. 9 and that of Fig. 10 can, therefore, be read as "The strength of
the signal tone which can just be heard through the noise." It can,
therefore, be directly compared with the signal curve itself and the
difference between the two curves is a measure of the level of the
actual signal strength above that which would just permit of the
signals being heard. Actually, the difference between the two curves,
as shown in the figures, is proportional to the ratio of the signal to
the noise strength, because the curves are plotted to a logarithmic
scale.

A:

The article "The history of noise [on the 100th anniversary of its birth]" in Volume 22, Issue 6, November 2005 of the IEEE Signal Processing Magazine seems to go in the same direction. https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1550188
Looking at one of the older papers referenced in that article, W. Schottky "Über spontane Stromschwankungen in verschiedenen elektrizitätsleitern" I see he uses the term "Schroteffekt" so I guess the German term "Rauschen" had not yet been established in 1918...

