Q:

What examples led to the modern definition of a topological space?

Today the language of topological spaces via open sets is fundamental in many different areas of mathematics, and it is a bit mysterious that the same formalism successfully captures such a wide variety of behavior.  I can think of several independent reasons to invent the definition of a topology, all of which would have been on mathematicians' radar screens around the time the definition was first being mulled over in the early 20th century:

To provide a foundation for Klein's Erlangen program and Poincare's work on Betti numbers and the fundamental group
To clarify the foundations of calculus, e.g. the role of compactness in the extreme value theorem
To distinguish among various notions of convergence of functions (leading to functional analysis)
To give meaning to arguments involving "generic" configurations in algebraic geometry

My understanding is that it took quite some time for the modern formalism of topological spaces to emerge, so I'm wondering what specific results or examples were most influential in its development?  And which modern applications of the theory were only realized after it matured?

A:

I believe that our modern definition of a topological space came primarily from Hausdorff's book Grundzüge der Mengenlehre (Foundations of Set Theory), first published in 1914, 2nd ed. 1927.  Hausdorff started with metric spaces, but then generalized them.
Of course, the background to Hausdorff's work was the 19th work on continuity, and the so-called "arithmetization of analysis" --- the attempt to put calculus on a firm logical foundation. The biggest names here are Cauchy, Weierstrass, Dedekind, Bolzano, and Cantor. But the axiomatization of general topology in terms of open or closed sets is due to Hausdorff.

A:

Topological spaces appear to have their roots in the nineteenth century. It started, indirectly, with the theory of limits and delta-epsilon proofs. A major breakthrough occurred with the development of set theory (e.g. DeMorgan's Laws) in the middle to latter part of the century. This led to the "generalization" of limit, convergence, and accumulation point axioms using the theory of open and closed sets. Topology is sometimes referred to as "point set" theory.
The applications you cite came "later," that is, in the twentieth century. So did the so-called Separation Axioms, beginning with Hausdorff spaces, in 1914, and extended in the middle of the century. But the foundations for these applications were laid in the previous century.

