Q:

Historical mentions (as if fact) that Sun never rises or sets

Now-a-days it is well known that sun never rise or set but appears to human

The sun stays in its position at the center of our solar system. It
  doesn't rise and set. But it appears to rise and set because of the
  Earth's rotation on its axis. 1, 2

An Indian text named Aitareya Brahmana of Rig veda contains this fact

The sun does never rise or set. When people think the sun is setting (it is not so). For after having arrived at the end of the
  day it makes itself produce two opposite effects, making night to what
  is below and day to what is on the other side. When they believe it
  rises in the morning (this supposed rising is thus to be explained
  for). Having reached the end of the night, it makes itself produce two
  opposite effects, making night to what is below and day to what is on
  the other side."  1, 2

Although there is no unanimous conclusion on dating of the text, it may be as old as 2000 BC or 1st millennium BCE.
Is there any other text that contains this fact before or in the time range of the above mentioned text?

A:

The sun, and its daily and yearly cycles, is one of the most important aspects of life on Earth, so it features prominently in many traditions, often in the form of a "solar deity". Within these myths, there are many different mythological explanations for sunset and sunrise - the sun might die and be reborn, travel out of sight through another land, or simply rest until the morning.
Given this variety of explanations, there is nothing particularly surprising about the idea that the sun turns to face some other land at the end of the day. There is a contrast in the cited passage with some other explanation, but it's not clear what the original writer would have meant by the phrase "when people think the sun is setting" - sunset is, after all, a real phenomenon. Possibly there was an alternative tradition that the sun deity died and was reborn (as did, for instance, the Ancient Egyptian Ra), and this writer was asserting that it "lived" continuously (as did, for instance, the Ancient Greek Helios).
Nor does the passage quoted actually match our modern scientific understanding in any detail. There is no singular moment where all observers would see the sun "reaching the end of the day"; rather, at every moment, it is sunset somewhere in the world. Nor does the sun "make itself produce two opposite effects"; it continues its same brightness, just obscured by the shadow of the Earth.

A:

The reference [22] from Wikipedia on "Aitareya Brahmana" quotes an English work A remarkable Vedic Theory, which in turn is based on a German work. I used DeepL to translate the quoted text in the reference:

"Interessant ist die Angabe des Ai. Bra. (iii, 44), dass die Sonne wirklich weder aufnoch untergeht, sondern dadurch dass sie sich umdreht, inden unteren Regionen, d.h. auf der Erde, abwechselnd Tag und Nacht hervorbringt. Wie die Sonne vom Westen zum Punktedes Anfangs zuruckkehrt, daruber geben die vedischen Texte keinen Aufschluss."
[Translation] Interesting is the indication of the Ai. Bra. (iii,
  44), that the sun really neither rises nor sets, but by turning
  around, in the lower regions, i.e. on the earth, alternately produces
  day and night. The Vedic texts do not explain how the sun returns from
  the west to the point of the beginning.

The OP provides a reference "Rigveda Brahmanas" from the Internet Archive, which quotes the similar text that the Sun never sets. A quick search of the word Sun shows that it occurs mainly in the context of Sun being treated as a deity as well as a home of deities.
One such example is

the sun is the world of the gods, and the fathers are the world of the 
  fathers, verily thus they ascend from the world of the fathers to the
  world of the gods.
  or
  The divine lordly power is the sun ; the sun is the overlord of these
  beings.

Therefore, it is not surprising to find the main context of Sun never setting or rising statement. Immediately after the Sun never setting or rising, a statement like this appears

he (sun) never really sets or rises. In that they think of him He is
  setting ', verily having reached the end of the day, he inverts
  himself ; thus  he makes evening below, day above. Again in that they
  think of him ' He  is rising in the morning, verily having reached
  the end of night he inverts  'himself ; thus he makes day below, night
  above. He never sets ; indeed he  never sets, union with him and
  identity of form and world he attains

The use of capital H in "He" makes it clear that Sun is being treated as a deity, which inverts itself to cause day and night. Thus it is hard to associate a scientific meaning with this statement. 
Praying and worshipping the Sun, is apparently prehistoric. One should not extract a scientific meaning from a coincidental mention of Sun never setting in a very old literature, which may have changed over a course of centuries. It is very clear that Sun is being referred to a deity in the context that it will not set. This Sun worship practice dates even before the time of prophet Abraham (the forefather of Judaism, Christianity and Islam), and apparently he also briefly worshipped the Sun before quickly denouncing and devoting himself to a single God. Certainly the dating of this Sun worship practice must be more than 2000 years old.

