Q:

Did Bacon analogize planets to holes in the head to explain why their number was (believed to be) seven?

I'm looking for a source (of which I've only ever read a quote) discussing the then seven known planets. In particular, I'm looking for the part where the author explains why that number seven makes sense with reference to (I think a Christian) God. His explanation goes something like this: the planets are holes in a celestial sphere; God mirrors those in the sphere of our own heads; and so just as there are seven holes in the head -- one mouth, plus two each of nostrils, eyes, and ears -- so are there seven planets in the heavens.
I think the writer was one of the Bacons, and probably Roger, in which case a likely candidate is his Opus Majus. But so far I haven't been able to find what I'm after.

A:

This probably refers to the "argument" of the Florentine astronomer Francesco Sizzi against the validity of Galileo's discovery of the moons of Jupiter. His "argument" was apparently quoted from the introduction to Francis Bacon, A Selection of His Works (where it illustrates the context of the times), and thereby entered the internet, but it is (thankfully) not Bacon's. Here is the full quote as translated in Fahie, Galileo, his life and work, p.103:

"There are seven windows given to animals
in the domicile of the head, through which the
air is admitted to the tabernacle of the body, to
enlighten, to warm, and to nourish it. What
are these parts of the microcosmos? Two nostrils,
two eyes, two ears, and a mouth. So in the
heavens, as in a macrocosmos, there are two
favourable stars, two unpropitious, two luminaries,
and Mercury undecided and indifferent.

From this and many other similarities in nature, such as the seven metals, etc., which it were tedious
to enumerate, we gather that the number of
planets is necessarily seven. Moreover, these
satellites of Jupiter are invisible to the naked
eye, and therefore can exercise no influence on
the earth, and therefore would be useless, and
therefore do not exist. Besides, the Jews and
other ancient nations, as well as modern
Europeans, have adopted the division of the
week into seven days, and have named them
after the seven planets. Now, if we increase
the number of the planets, this whole and
beautiful system falls to the ground."

The "logic" is ironclad.

