Q:

Who introduced the Principle of Mathematical Induction for the first time?

Can you tell me the name of the mathematician, who introduced the Principle of Mathematical Induction for the first time? (with reliable source).
Please don't say De Morgan because I have read the name of the mathematician somewhere, but I have forgotten. 

A:

The issue is thorny ...
According to Morris Kline, Mathematical Thought from Ancient to Modern Time. Volume I (1972), page 272 [only entry of the Subject Index regarding : mathematical Induction] :

The method was recognized explicitly by Maurolycus in his Arithmetica of 1575 and was used by him to prove, for example, that $1+3+5+ \ldots + (2n+1)=n^2$. Pascal in one of his letters acknowledged Maurolycus's introduction of the method and used it himself in his Traité du triangle arithmétique (1665), wherein he presents what we now call the Pascal triangle.

The modern source is Giovanni Vacca (1872 –1953) Italian mathematician, assistant to Giuseppe Peano and historian of science in his :

G.Vacca, Maurolycus, the first discoverer of the principle of mathematical induction (1909)

with comments in :

W.H.Bussey, The Origin of Mathematical Induction (1917).

Acording to Kline :

the method [of mathematical induction] is implicit even in Euclid's proof of the infinitude of the number of primes [IX, 20].

This point is debatable.
Euclid, The Thirteen Books of the Elements, Vol. 2: Books III - IX (T.L.Heath editor), states IX.20 as follows [page 412] :

Prime numbers are more than any assigned multitude of prime numbers.

The proof is per impossibile. According to Heath's comment [page 413] :

We have here the important proposition that the number of prime numbers is infinite.

Neither in the statement of the proposition nor in its proof Euclid uses the work infinite [apeiros -on : adj, infinite].
In can be helpful to place it in the context of Grrek debate about the infinite : see Aristotle and Mathematics on the actual infinity.
According to the Aristotelian philosophy, we cannot legitimately "conceive" actual infinity; i.e. we have no experience of an infinite "collection" but only of an unlimited iterative process (the potential infinity).
Euclid's statement must be understood in this context : we never have a "complete" infinite set of prime numbers, but we have a "procedure" that, for a finite collection of prime numbers whatever, can "produce" a new prime which is not in the collection.
The only occurrence (not regarding straight lines) I've found of the word infinite (searching into : EUCLID’S ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRY, the Greek text of J.L. Heiberg (1883–1885), edited, and provided with a modern English translation, by Richard Fitzpatrick), is VII,31 [Heath ed, page 332] :

Any composite number is measured by some prime number.

The proof uses the fact that :

For, if it is not found [some prime number which will measure the number before it, which will also measure A], an infinite series of numbers [emphasis added] will measure the number A, each of which is less than the other: which is impossible in numbers.

It seems the only reasonable "candidate" for a precursor of the least number principle [see the comment of Ian Mueller, Philosophy of Mathematics and Deductive Structure in Euclid's Elements (1981, Dover reprint), page 77]. 

According to :

Reviel Netz, The Shaping of Deduction in Greek Mathematics (1999), page 215 :

the Greeks [...] did not have mathematical induction [...].

Regarding Pappus, in 

Serafina Cuomo, Pappus of Alexandria and the Mathematics of Late Antiquity (2000) there are no references to induction.

A:

Well, you could go with Plato. From this (Wayback Machine),

For a start, although
the principle itself is not explicitly stated in any ancient Greek text, there are several places that contain precursors of it. Indeed, some historians see the following
passage from Plato’s (427-347 BC) dialogue Parmenides (§147a7-c3) as the earliest
use of an inductive argument.

The text quotes Parmenides:

Then they must be two, at least, if there is to be contact. - They must. - And if to the
two terms a third be added in immediate succession, they will be three, while the
contacts [will be] two. - Yes. - And thus, one [term] being continually added, one
contact also is added, and it follows that the contacts are one less than the number of
terms. For the whole successive number [of terms] exceeds the number of all the
contacts as much as the first two exceed the contacts, for being greater in number
than the contacts: for afterwards, when an additional term is added, also one contact
to the contacts [is added]. - Right. - Then whatever the number of terms, the
contacts are always one less. -True.

I attempted to find a second translation, and found this one, but I have been unable to identify this section, even though the section is supposedly listed. I found another transcript here, but it, too does not agree with the given text in the pdf. Still, the dialogue closely resembles the technique of mathematic induction, albeit used in a philosophical context.
The page goes on to add that Euclid and Pappus, too, played a part:

There are, however, several ancient mathematical texts that also contain quasi-inductive arguments. For instance Euclid (~330 - ~ 265 BC) in his Elements employs one to show that every integer is a product of primes. An argument closer to the modern version of induction is in Pappus' (~290-~350 AD) Collectio.

I have been unable to find a similar primary source for Euclid and Pappus. However, this appears to corroborate Euclid's role (though not as detailed as I would have likes) and also says that Wikipedia's claim about Pascal being important (mentioned below from another source) is accurate. I'm working on more primary sources, but at the moment no others are forthcoming.

This says that Pascal played a role in modern times:

Cantor in his Vorlesungen iuber Geschichte der Mathematik' says that Pascal
was the originator of the method of complete induction

A:

Victor Katz wrote in a discussion at the Historia mathematica discussion list, "as Barnabas Hughes
notes, it is difficult to answer the question of the "first instances of
proof by induction" unless one carefully defines what one means by "proof
by induction." (The same general remark applies to lots of questions about
firsts in the history of mathematics.) Noicomachus certainly has an argument
which we would find very easy to convert into a modern formal "proof by
induction." So do several Islamic authors around the 11th century,
including al-Karaji and al-Samaw'al. (See my book, pp. 238-242.) Pascal
may well be the first to state the modern principle of mathematical
induction explicitly, but even he does not give proofs in the modern style -
because he has no notation for a general "n". Thus he generally gives
proofs by what I call the "method of generalizable example." 
In another post Barnabus Hughes suggests yet an earlier "first use" of induction:
If the essence of math induction lies in a process that begins at some
small value, which process can be continued to larger values which
regardless of their size maintain the pattern one wishes to accept, then
I would hazard that Nicomachus of Geresa used the essence of math
induction where he discussed figurate numbers (Arithmetica, Bk. 2, CC.
7ff.) In C. 7 he states, "Hence, the triangle is elementary among these
figures; for everything else is resolved into it, but it into nothing
else." He then shows how, if the process established for the creation of
each figurate number is followed, then that number is always seen. C. 12
shows how the other figures are resolved into triangles, including a
table which lists the first five polygonal numbers to the tenth degree of
each. I think that Nick established the pattern by induction. Comment?
Barnabas Hughes

