Q:

Foundational crises in non-Western historical mathematical communities

In Foundations of Set Theory by Fraenkel, Bar-Hillel, and Levy (1973), the authors argue that there have been three distinct periods of crisis in the foundations of mathematics. The first was undergone by the Ancient Greeks:

[...] two discoveries were made that were extremely paradoxical: the first was that not all geometrical entities of the same kind were commensurable with each other, so that, for instance, the diagonal of a given square could not be measured by an aliquot part of its side (in modern terms, that the square root of 2 is not a rational number); the other were the paradoxes of the Eleatic school (Zenon and his circle) developing with many variations the theme of the non-constructibility of finite magnitudes out of infinitely small parts. (pp. 13)
This crisis shocked the Greek mathematicians into obtaining two more brilliant achievements: the theory of proportions, as contained in books 5 and 10 of Euclid’s Elements, and the method of exhaustion, as invented by Archimedes, that was nothing less than a strict, though not sufficiently general, forerunner of modern theories of integration. (pp. 13)

The second involved the foundations of analysis:

[...] in the 17th and 18th centuries, the great power and fruitfulness of the newly invented calculus led most mathematicians of those times into feverish applications of the new ideas without caring much for the solidity of the basis upon which the calculus was founded. However, the shakiness of this basis became clear at the beginning of the 19th century, constituting the second crisis in the foundations of mathematics. (pp. 13)
In order to overcome this crisis, Cauchy, in the eighteen thirties, showed how to replace the irresponsible use of infinitesimals by a careful use of limits, whereas Weierstrass and others, in the sixties and seventies, demonstrated how all of analysis and function theory could be “arithmetized”. (pp. 13-14)

And the third of course was sparked by investigation into set theory and the discovery of the antinomies:

More than the mere appearance of antinomies in the basis of set theory, and thereby of analysis, it is the fact that the various attempts to overcome these antinomies, to be dealt with in the subsequent chapters, revealed a far-going and surprising divergence of opinions and conceptions on the most fundamental mathematical notions, such as set and number themselves, which induces us to speak of the third foundational crisis that mathematics is still undergoing. (pp. 14)

The three crises were motivated by either explicit paradoxes or severe philosophical skepticism about the subject matter and/or validity of the mathematical tools and concepts which were under scrutiny. They also were started by people who are part of Western civilizations (mainly European) and can be seen as part of Western mathematical history (at least in origin, the third crises surely has had global contributions made to it).
My question is:
Are there any examples in non-Western historical cultures, such as classical India or China for example, which had foundational crises in their work on mathematics? Were there any paradoxes or was there severe philosophical skepticism which motivated and lead directly to new tools or conceptions of mathematics?

A:

Let me point out that the Fraenkel-Bar-Hillel "march to rigorization" quote reflects the early 20-th century "rational reconstructions" of history that were worked out by mathematician-historians like Klein, van der Warden and Dieudonné and got enshrined in historical sections of many old and still current textbooks, partly due to their didactic convenience. Nonetheless, they lift patterns and concerns from recent history (formalization, axiomatization, foundations, etc.) and project (impose) them onto prior times. As a result, many of their surmises are largely discredited by contemporary scholarship, including the one about "foundational crises".
On early Greek mathematics a good source is Fowler's Mathematics of Plato's Academy. Concerning the traditional story about the "discovery of irrationals" and the subsequent "crisis", the reviewer writes: 

"It may be somewhat surprising, then, to discover that many, if not most, historians of ancient mathematics disbelieve some or all of this story. In The Mathematics of Plato's Academy, David Fowler gives a convincing account of the reasons for rejecting the standard story, and offers a very interesting alternative reconstruction of the history of early Greek mathematics... One of the important themes in Fowler's book is that one must carefully assess the available sources on early Greek mathematics. He demonstrates that most of the elements of the "standard story" either come from very late Greek sources (500 years or more after the time of Plato) or are reconstructions by modern historians who are really reflecting nineteenth and twentieth century concerns about foundational issues... The resulting picture is quite different from the traditional one. In particular, incommensurability is seen not as a foundational crisis but rather as an interesting discovery that led to significant mathematics."

There was no "shock" or "crisis", and Eudoxus was not the savior. Much work on incommensurables was done by Pythagoreans like Archytas, Theodorus and Theaetetus before him, some of it survives in books II and X of Elements. Their work was based on anthyphairesis, a geometric version of what is now called Euclidean algorithm producing what is now called continued fractions, the same process that presumably led to the discovery of incommensurables. There is no evidence of the supposed phase before the discovery, when Pythagoreans thought that all magnitudes were commensurable. Eudoxus's motivations, if we are to speculate about them, likely were extra-mathematical and not internal, they might have had more to do with Platonic push to eliminate motion and process from geometry "corrupted" by them. The same tendency is transparent throughout Elements, and we know that Eudoxus's ingenious mathematical astronomy of nested spheres was a response to Plato's call to "save the phenomena" from their sensible disorder too. Let me also mention in passing that another background assumption of textbook histories, "Euclid the axiomatician", has also been largely discredited, see references in What caused or contributed to Euclid's Elements and Synthetic Geometry falling into disfavor?
The "feverish applications" without "solidity of the basis" story about calculus conveniently omits its kinematic (late Newtonian) conception, within which Cauchy worked, and most of algebraic analysis of 18th century, that had much more "solidity", to manufacture another "crisis" and leap straight to Weierstrass and Cantor. The boost at the beginning of 19-th century had more to do with institutional changes and Fourier inspired broadening of the repertory of functions than with "the basis". 
I think the motivation behind the question is to compare Western mathematics to other cultures to see if it displays unique historical patterns, and this is a valid topic. Unfortunately, the proposed "pattern" in this case is largely fabricated even for the West, so there is no point looking for it elsewhere. An additional difficulty is that our sources for Egyptian, Babylonian, early Chinese and Indian mathematics are too sporadic to form a reliable picture of their development. It would take some work to figure out what a similarly motivated but answerable question might be, perhaps one should look for apparent "big turns". Of course, it will depend on what counts as "big" or "turn", but some promising places to look might be medieval Islamic mathematics and the "Chinese Renaissance". One could perhaps make a case that some traits of "Western" (including Middle East) mathematics were unique, see related Is the Scientific Method uniquely Western?, but we should be mindful that our "sample" for detecting historical patterns just might be too thin to generate anything but artifacts.

