Q:

What are some good references elucidating the discovery/creation of Fourier Series?

I've always grappled with anything related to Fourier since my undergrad days. Recently, when revisiting why I learned what I did, I discovered how Fourier's desire to understand the flow of heat through a solid body led to the creation/discovery of Fourier Series and correspondingly the Fourier Transform.
However, I've never been able to make the mental leap from the heat equation to the creation of Fourier Series.
Are there any good sources (references, books, videos (most preferable) etc.) that provide a walkthrough to help "discover/create" the findings of Fourier by yourself?
This is purely an intellectual exercise out of curiosity - it may not be worth it. Still, I'm curious to be able to understand it "naturally" vs being told it is so.
My expected "thought experiment setup" is a thin rod with thermometers at regular intervals and using that to derive what Fourier did - not sure if this is even possible, but the idea is to go from the simplest abstraction to the actual concept at hand. It's okay if things are mixed with modern calculus to help understand it better since at the time it was still in flux.

A:

Contrary to what the name suggests, Fourier series were not invented/discovered by Fourier. They were considered by Euler and Bernoullis, in relation to the one dimensional wave equation, not the heat equation. This early story is described
for example in the papers by Luzin in Amer. Math. Monthly:
Luzin, N. Function. I. Amer. Math. Monthly 105 (1998), no. 1, 59–67.
Luzin, N. Function. II. Amer. Math. Monthly 105 (1998), no. 3, 263–270.
(Hovewer, Fourier integral and theta-functions are Fourier's inventions). The book of Fourier is translated into English, and it is still a very interesting reading.
In it Fourier gave a systematic theory of solving PDE's by the method of separation of the variables, and after its publication, Fourier series became a general tool in mathematics and physics. So the names Fourier series and Fourier analysis are well justified.
Remark on comments. Fourier did not establish with a rigorous proof any general criteria of representation of functions by Fourier series.
His book was criticized as non-rigorous, and this substantially delayed its publication. However he made very convincing arguments. He also checked some of his results by actual experiment with heating various bodies.
Fourier was a scientist, not only a pure mathematician.He said that the main goal of mathematics is a profound study of nature. One of the principal motivating questions for his study of heat was determination of the age of the Earth. This was later done by Thomson (Lord Kelvin) using Fourier theory.

A:

§1.1 (+ supplement) of Bressoud’s A radical approach to real analysis, recommended here just recently, does pretty much exactly what you want.

A:

The book Introduction to the Theory of Fourier's Series and Integrals by H. S. Carslaw answers your questions in the first chapter on the History of this subject. Many commonly held false beliefs are debunked in his first chapter, including the idea that Fourier failed to give a rigorous proof of convergence. Another common false belief is that Fourier discovered the Fourier coefficients. The "orthogonality" conditions were discovered by Clairaut and Euler. This is a fascinating bit of History that is often incorrectly cited.

