Q:

What are the earliest inventions to store and release energy (e.g. fly wheels)?

I am interested in very early inventions that allowed energy to be stored and released after a delay even it's just a short time. With "invention" I mean a novelty that is the result of humans' intellectual creativity. Someting that cannot just be done like throwing a stone but requires ingenuity and/or experimentation. A bow is better. A fly wheel better still.
I am aware that it is unlikely to find a proven first use of such inventions. Still, I am interested in what history knows about it's early uses.
My current assumption is that the first invention to store energy was the fly wheel. And one of the first uses or probably THE first use of a fly wheel is pottery. One site states without providing sources.

The first potter’s wheel is believed to have come from Sumer in 3129 BC, although there is evidence that points to other places of origin. Precursors to the wheel started appearing as early as 4500 BC though, so an exact date is likely impossible.

Though the date 3129 BC seems questionable (how could it be determined so precisely?) the rough date and origin are confirmed by the Encyclopaedia Britannica.

Handmade pottery has been found at Ur, in Mesopotamia [...] dating from a time soon after the Flood (about 3000 BCE), was wheelmade decorated pottery of a type usually called Al ’Ubaid.

Are these sources correct and are there better ones?
What about other regions of this world? E.g. the Chinese were famous for their pottery for a very long time and it only seems reasonable to assume that fly wheels were invented in Asia independently from teh middle east.
Are there any other uses of fly wheels that date back that far?

A:

One early invention for storing energy was a basin above the level of the river.
It was filled with water when the water in the river was high, and then, when the water in the river was low, it was allowed to flow to the fields from the basin.
Such a basin could also be filled manually. Such devices were used in ancient Egypt, as a part of their irrigation system even before the "beginning of history" (by which many understand the invention of writing).
Another pre-historic device for storing energy, which is even older is a bow. It stores the energy when you draw it, to release it quickly when you shoot.

A:

This is probably not what you were thinking of but "the earliest invention that allowed energy to be stored and released after a delay even it's just a short time" was a stone.
I can store energy in it briefly by flinging it at your head (kinetic). I can store energy in it even longer by putting it on a cliff above your head (potential).
Stone based inventions might not be sexy but we did have an entire age named after them.

A:

Agriculture
The purpose of farming is to harness the freely available energy from the sun, and convert it into a form that can fuel the human body. Agriculture enabled significant food surpluses, which is simply a form of energy storage. Similar to how a flywheel stores mechanical energy which can be used later, food surpluses store chemical energy which can be used later. The invention of agriculture over 10,000 years ago solved an energy storage problem, allowing early humans to effectively store the abundant energy of the growing season for use at a later time when energy was not as plentiful.

