Q:

How come that the "heroes" in physics are gone?

I'm not sure if this question can be answered objectively but I still ask.
Once upon a time there were people like Galileo, Newton, Einstein, Feynman, Curie, Tesla, Dirac, Schrödinger, maybe Chopra, and all I don't mention. More recently maybe Hawking (about whom even a film was made, but maybe he had his wheelchair playing in favor of him). In Amsterdam and many other cities streets are named after these guys and girls.
Though I have my personal present hero, it seems that the past people don't have a counterbalance in recent or present day, again Hawing being the exception.
Why is it that almost all people know Einstein, Curie, Newton, or Hawking, but almost nobody knows Smolin, Witten, Verlinde (a Dutch physicist who invented an emergent gravity theory, who was even hailed on the Dutch news as the inventor of a completely new gravity), or Sabine what's-her-name (the German physicist who is popular on the internet)?
What was different in the past? Was the world still to be discovered (everybody knows Columbus or othe discovery travelers who were heading for the new world)? Like the invention (discovery) of the major fundaments?
Of course there are TV celebrities but I can hardly call them the heroes of physics. Maybe the advocates.
Truly coincidentally, I just read a piece in a Dutch newspaper, about the history of science (my translation):

It was a time of titans. It was the time of scientists like Eduard Meyers, Jan-Hendrik Oort, Pieter Zeeman, and Johan Huizinga, individuals who blew their faculties to great heights. It was a time when Leiden university could imagine itself to be the best in Holland.

This is exactly what I mean. No more heroes anymore...

A:

There are several reasons for this phenomenon.

What you are talking about is not really history of science, but history of mass media. That some physicists are household names while others
are in relative obscurity. (For example you do not mention Stevin, Huygens or Hooke, Laplace or Hamilton, or even Maxwell (!!), and they are not among the names recognizable by everybody). This is a property of mass media to choose one "hero" at the expense of others. Public attention cannot concentrate on too many "heroes". (Some self-promotion can also play the role, sometimes).

Some time should pass before the really great discoveries are properly evaluated. Newton's greatness was not so much recognized in his lifetime as it was after. (Jonathan  Swift once wrote about Newton to his friend: "They say ridiculous things, for example that there is an
an instrument maker in London, whole fame will be greater than mine!")

But the main reason is that physics is nowadays much larger than it used to be. There are much more great physicists and much more discoveries than there
used to be at the time of Newton. And public attention has only very limited ability to digest this.

As someone said: "The system of the world can be discovered only once". In some sense, the most fundamental discoveries are made at earlier times, and later generations can only build on them. So as time goes, the fame of
people like Newton, Maxwell, Einstein and Bohr increases all the time so the later discoverers can hardly compete. At the time when Newton lived, Archimedes and Descartes were more famous than he.

Newton's main discoveries are easy to explain to the general public: everyone can see comets, planets, rainbows and tides, and even imagine the shape of Earth. Electrical phenomena are not so clearly visible in the nature, but their discoveries immediately led to new technologies which everyone uses in daily life. Same with Quantum theory, it eventually led to many new technologies, including atomic energy. But modern theoretical physics is more remote from our daily life: nothing in our ordinary life is related to quarks, black holes or Higgs boson.

