Q:

How come there is no portrait of Legendre?

Besides the famous cartoon, of course, there seems to be no portrait of Legendre. Legendre is well regarded nowadays and he was also quite influential at his time, for example, Jacobi and Abel praised him. Furthermore, he came from a wealthy family. So it is surprising to me that there is no actual portrait of him.

A:

Because (Adrien-Marie) Legendre, the mathematician, wanted it this way, see Duren, Changing Faces: The Mistaken Portrait of Legendre, who quotes Poisson:

"We know from testimony of Poisson
that Legendre did not welcome personal attention,
but wanted his work to speak for itself. Speaking
at Legendre’s funeral, Poisson said:"Our colleague often expressed the desire that in speaking of him it would be
only a question of his works, which are in fact his
whole life. I will comply strictly with his wish in
this tribute that I come to pay..." In view of these remarks, it seems likely that Legendre actively discouraged the making of portraits."

This is in contrast to the absence of Hooke's portraits, where the cause is more mysterious, see  Henderson on Hooke, Newton, and the ‘missing’ portrait. In the absence of Adrien-Marie's real portraits, a portrait of a French revolutionary Louis Legendre was substituted for his as early as 1900, and reproduced even by some historians, like Eves and Struik. The error was only discovered by two University of Strasbourg students in 2005.

"Once the traditional portrait was known to be
false, a feverish search began for a true portrait of
Adrien-Marie Legendre. Miraculously, an authentic
portrait was discovered during the year 2008 in
the library of the Institut de France in Paris, among
a rare collection of seventy-three caricatures of
members of the Institute. One of the watercolor
sketches (depicted on the cover of this issue of
the Notices) shows the heads of Legendre and
Fourier, with bodies lightly sketched in pencil.
Their names “Legendre” and “Fourier” are written
below the sketch. Fourier is easily recognized
from existing portraits, but Legendre takes on a
totally new appearance. This is the only image of
Adrien-Marie Legendre known to exist.

[...] The album of caricatures has a mysterious
history. It is the work of Julien-Léopold Boilly
(1796–1874). His father Louis-Léopold Boilly
(1761–1845) was a more famous artist, a member
of the Académie des Beaux-Arts best known for
his oil portraits. The younger Boilly was commissioned
to do a series of engravings of members
of the Institute, but the work was never finished;
the partial collection (also in the library of the
Institut de France) includes a formal portrait of
Fourier but apparently none of Legendre... The collection also contains a caricature of Laplace, but no other mathematicians are represented.

The entire album can be viewed on the
website of the Réunion des musées nationales (Click on “recherche”, then type in “Boilly” for searching and click repeatedly on “suivante”). The two Boilly artists appear to be confused, since the website attributes the album
of caricatures to the father Louis-Léopold.
In the juxtaposition of Legendre and Fourier,
the artist seems to be commenting on a contrast
of personalities: Fourier fat and jolly, Legendre
lean and acerbic. However, the historical record
sometimes portrays Legendre in quite a different
light. A case in point is the kind reception he gave
to Abel and Jacobi."

