Q:

Length of the year in Aztec/Maya calendar

In an old book of Prescott (died in 1859), The conquest of Mexico, the author described Aztec calendar with a year of 365 days. To compensate for the difference, every 52 years
an additional 12.5 days were added (so that every other 52-years period started at noon,
and the rest at midnight). This gives the average length of the year 365.24038 day
which is only 2 minutes short, and is more precise than any European calendar before the Gregorian one. He refers to the research by Gama, Descripcion historica y chronologica de las Dos Piedras, (Mexico 1832).
However I was unable to find a confirmation of this information in modern books,
for example, in Thurston, Early astronomy, Springer, 1994. Modern sources 
 such as Wikipedia, Thurston and others say that Aztec calendar is the same as Maya calendar, and none of them addresses the intercalary days and length of the year. Thurston cites some modern works which try to estimate the average length of the year in Maya calendar and concludes that the claims on high accuracy are unfounded. But nobody mentions the ingenious intercalation described by Prescott and Gama. Does this mean that Gama's research was somehow disproved or is it simply forgotten? 
EDIT. Following the suggestion in the comments I looked in the book by M. Coe, The Maya. It indeed contains a sentence:

We know that none of the Maya
  intercalated days on leap years or the like, as we do, and it has
  been shown that more sophisticated corrections thought to
  have been made by them are a figment of the imagination.

No explanation, no references. He even does not mention Gama, the founding father of Maya studies. The question remains how the Maya did agriculture with a calendar not tied to seasons.

A:

The standard literature on the Mayan calendar is:
J. Eric S. Thompson, Maya Hieroglyphic Writing, Washington : Carnegie Institution, 1950.
Lis Brack-Bernsen, 'Die Basler Mayatafeln', Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel, Vol.86 (1977), 1-76.
Floyd G. Lounsbury, 'Maya numeration, computation, and calendrical astronomy', Dictionary of Scientific Biography, Volume XV, Supplement I, 1978.
All of these agree that the year had 18 “months” of 20 days each and one “month” of 5 days, making a year of 365 days. There is no evidence for intercalation.

