Q:

Is it advisable for a healthy male in his early 40s to take the influenza vaccine?

Influenza vaccines do not have satisfactory effective rates of preventing flu. Flu vaccination reduces the risk of flu illness by between 40% and 60% among the overall population during seasons when most circulating flu viruses are well-matched to the flu vaccine, according to the CDC. This is not considered highly effective for a vaccine.
Furthermore, there is the risk of mercury that is harmful to the body, according to Natural News.
Does it make sense for a healthy male in his early 40s to take the influenza vaccine, particularly when flu is an irritant but nowhere near deadly? Flu jabs come with mercury danger and does not sound effective. I am a lay man, so I may have miss out something important. Please correct me if I am wrong.

A:

In general, the benefit of flu shots is to the general population. Taking the cited value of 40%-60% from the CDC, we can say that it might be a coin toss for you personally to be protected from influenza by the shot. However, if many thousands of people take the flu shot, even if it only works on 40% of them, it helps protect the remaining population from the spread of the virus (AKA herd immunity). This is especially important to those within the population who cannot access the shot or cannot receive it due to a preexisting medical condition. As Graham Chiu's answer points out, influenza is no joke, especially for vulnerable members of the population (such as the elderly or people with certain medical conditions).
With regards to mercury in the flu shot, the specific additive is called "Thimerosal". Firstly: not all flu shots contain Thimerosal. If you feel strongly about it, ask your pharmacist for a vaccine that doesn't contain Thimerosal. The additive is a preservative to prevent bacteria or fungi from growing in multi-dose vials containing the influenza vaccine. For explanations as to why you don't need to worry about Thimerosal, see the other great answers below.
Some further information to put your mind at ease. In their article in Scientific American, Matthew F. Daly and Jason M. Glanz (a pediatrician and epidemiologist respectively at Kaiser Permanente's Institute for Health Research in Denver) have this to say about the safety of vaccines:

Because vaccines are given to huge numbers of people, including healthy infants, they are held to a much higher safety standard than medications used for people who are already sick.

From the same article:

The key facts [you] need to know, though, are that vaccines prevent potentially fatal diseases, that vaccines have a high degree of safety, and that their safety is constantly evaluated and reevaluated in a system operating independently from the pharmaceutical companies that make vaccines.

As a final note: in that article shared by the OP there are several scientifically unsound arguments and factual errors. I'm not going through the effort of refuting them all here. It is however worth pointing out that the presence of Thimerosal in vaccines is not a secret, and is well known among the scientific and medical community. In a brief search of medical literature in the medical science database PubMed.gov (free to the public, by the way) with the search terms "influenza vaccine safety" I could find no results making any claims about adverse side effects due to Thimerosal. In a database containing literally millions of independent, peer-reviewed medical scientific publications, you will be hard pressed to find any supporting the claims made in the aforementioned article shared by the OP.
In fact, this review article (where researchers summarize the results of 190 other sources on vaccine safety) had this to say on the topic of vaccine safety [paraphrased by me]:

Influenza causes substantial death, suffering and socioeconomic impact worldwide.
Vaccination is the best defense against influenza.
Influenza vaccines are "very safe".
The only known side effects of influenza vaccines are temporary nasal congestion (runny nose) and sometimes allergic reactions.
Allergic reactions appear in less than 1 out of every 1,000,000 doses.
Children with asthma under the age of 2 are particularly susceptible to the side effects of the influenza vaccine and more study is required to ensure it's safety for this particular high-risk group.

In other words, infants who have problems breathing might be more significantly affected by allergic reactions or congestion. That's all they have to say about flu vaccine side effects (regardless of whether they contain Thimerosal). Finally, a direct quote from the conclusion:

Vaccines have to meet higher safety standards, since they are administered to healthy people, mainly healthy children. The monitoring of annual influenza vaccine safety, which is particular [sic] important on account of the annual changes in the viral antigen composition of the vaccine, constitutes a critical component of the influenza vaccination program. Indeed, not only does this strategy ensure the safety of vaccines, it can also maintain public trust in the national vaccination program.

A:

Tackling your points in turn, in inverted order:

flu is an irritant but nowhere near deadly

You are probably confusing the flu (influenza) with the common cold, which is colloquially often called “the flu”, or gastroenteritis (colloquially called “stomach flu”). Unfortunately these are actually very different diseases. The common cold is indeed largely harmless. By contrast, influenza (and potentially also gastroenteritis) is a serious, and potentially deadly, disease. Its symptoms vary but it usually leads to high fever, strong pain, diarrhoea and difficulty sleeping. In a word, you’ll feel rotten for the better part of a week.
In addition, the mortality may not seem very high but (even ignoring that it caused the deadliest epidemic in human history) each year thousands of people die from it in the US alone. In fact, the numbers vary greatly with each season, from about 3,000 to almost 50,000.
As a healthy 40-year-old you are less likely to die from the flu but you could still get very seriously ill. Furthermore, by getting vaccinated, you contribute to herd immunity. This prevents the flu’s spread and protects other, less healthy people, from dying from the flu.

[40%–60% risk reduction] is not considered highly effective for a vaccine.

Even a 40% risk reduction is very effective. It’s maybe not considered “highly effective” compared to other vaccines because vaccines, in general, are extremely effective. But compared to other remedies, vaccines are one of the most effective treatment methods.
Rather than thinking of 40%–60% as a coin toss, think of it this way: amongst the vaccinated population, the incidence is more than halved (due to the compounding effect of reduced risk of infection in the population). This is impressive.

[The flu vaccine contains] mercury that is harmful to the body, according to Natural News.

This is intentionally deceptive: flu vaccines do not contain elementary mercury (and never have)! Some flu vaccines contain thiomersal (or “thimerosal”), which in turn contains ethylmercury. Despite its name, this is a different compound, and does not have the same chemical properties as elementary mercury.1 Contrary to what Natural News claims, thiomersal in vaccines is safe: it has never been found to produce a negative effect in humans.2
Beware of your news sources: Natural News is a scam website that lies to sell ineffective, unregulated, and potentially harmful supplements. When researching health topics, always cross-reference your information with respectable sources such as the WHO, the NHS or the CDC. You don’t need to exclusively rely on them but they accurately portray the scientific consensus and, unlike sites like Natural News, they have no financial interest in lying to the public, since they do not make profit off it. Furthermore, they are funded independently by different governments.

1 This is a very important point, so it bears explaining: Consider table salt. Table salt is the chemical compound sodium chloride. Both sodium and chloride, in isolation, are highly toxic. But when combined chemically, as in table salt, they form a harmless compound that is safe for normal consumption. The same is true for the relationship between mercury and ethylmercury.
2 As everywhere, the dose makes the poison. Thiomersal in high concentrations is toxic, just like table salt. Toxicity is often measured in LD50. Salt has an LD50 of 12357 mg/kg in humans, which means that approx. 58 tablespoons are problematic for an 80 kg man. Thiomersal has an LD50 of 75 mg/kg (in rats), which means that you’d need to vaccinate that 80 kg man over 100,000 times, at once, for a similar effect!

A:

Influenza deaths are not specifically tracked in those over the age of 18 but they can be estimated from death certificates.

CDC estimates that from 2010-2011 to 2013-2014, influenza-associated deaths in the United States ranged from a low of 12,000 (during 2011-2012) to a high of 56,000 (during 2012-2013). Death certificate data and weekly influenza virus surveillance information was used to estimate how many flu-related deaths occurred among people whose underlying cause of death on their death certificate included respiratory or circulatory causes.

So deaths from influenza are often from a secondary bacterial pneumonia or excessive immune response (cytokine storm) to the flu infection.  Some young people can die within hours of the flu infection from the latter reason.  
And if we just look at hospitalization rates we can see that for the age range 18-49, the rate of 41/100,000 is under half that of the average but twice higher than age range 5-17 years. 
And 50 million deaths from the 1918 pandemic makes your statement that "flu is an irritant" completely erroneous.
Interestingly a new paradigm for managing seasonal flu has been suggested.  The issue is that the people who most need the vaccination (elderly, sick, very young) are those that benefit the least from vaccination due to an impaired immune response to the vaccine, and it may be more effective to vaccinate the older young who respond well to vaccination:

Furthermore, influenza
  epidemiology is unfortunately characterised by
  dissociation between populations most likely to
  have severe disease (infants and elderly people), and
  populations most likely to benefit from vaccination
  (older children and adolescents—ie, those aged
  2–16 years).3
   Older children and adolescents seem to
  be important for the early propagation of influenza
  in populations, and the efficacy of influenza vaccines
  is greater in these populations than in elderly people,
  but they are generally not prioritised for immunisation
  because of their lower risk of morbidity and mortality
  from this infection.3
   This paradoxical state of affairs
  has led some researchers to suggest that the best way
  to minimise the burden of seasonal influenza would
  be to focus immunisation programmes on children,
  adolescents, and young adults, with benefit accrued by
  elderly people and infants as a result of herd immunity.3

And ...

analysis highlights
  the importance of herd effects for decision makers:
  a rapidly implemented LAIV programme focused on
  children aged 2–16 years is actually more effective
  at preventing disease in elderly people than a more
  slowly implemented programme that includes both
  LAIV and direct immunisation of elderly people
  themselves. This finding is because a rapid, early focus
  on young individuals, in whom the vaccine is more
  effective, stops the influenza epidemic in its tracks. 

