Q:

Why is the name of a medicament not printed on the pill?

Some pills have the milligrams of active substance engraved and often there is a lot of room to engrave more information, but I never saw a pill that had, for example, an abbreviation of the name of the substance or the trade name of the medicament engraved.
Is there some regulatory reason or another compelling argument why the manufacturers do not use the space to add information (like an abbreviation of the name, some code that can be looked up or letters for classfication between different types of drugs) that helps to distinguish different pills? Often there are not even the milligrams of active substance on the pill and the sizes used for different doses vary largely between different brands of generica.
I added the european-union tag for the assumptions in my question, but are interested in all answers just make sure to add what legislation the answer is about.

A:

Every government is going to have their own regulations for this sort of thing.
For the US, the law states:

Unless exempted under ยง 206.7, no drug product in solid oral dosage form may be introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce unless it is clearly marked or imprinted with a code imprint that, in conjunction with the product's size, shape, and color, permits the unique identification of the drug product and the manufacturer or distributor of the product. Identification of the drug product requires identification of its active ingredients and its dosage strength. Inclusion of a letter or number in the imprint, while not required, is encouraged as a more effective means of identification than a symbol or logo by itself. Homeopathic drug products are required only to bear an imprint that identifies the manufacturer and their homeopathic nature.

In summary, you need to be able to ID a pill based on it's size, shape, color, and label. Anything else may be allowed but is not required.
I think if you printed a long name there would be serious limits on the possible font size, and this would make the pill difficult to identify. An abbreviation could easily be confused for a different drug; much safer for someone to have a pill that they can't identify and know they can't identify, than to have a pill that they think they've identified correctly but are actually wrong because they misunderstood the abbreviation intended.
Note also the requirement to identify "manufacturer or distributor of the product" - while you might think it would be more convenient for all manufacturers to have the same appearance for the same drug, that's not necessarily good from a regulatory perspective, where it may be very important that a pill can be identified as coming from a particular source if it is found to be contaminated or otherwise not conforming to specifications.

