Q:

Glucagen-like Peptide 1 (GLP-1): Is there food containing it or increases it's production?

Insulin therapy affects the GLP-1 level of patients. Is there some "natural" appearance of GLP-1 in food, or food which stimulates GLP-1 production? 
(Background: In Diabetes Typ 2 medication with GLP-1 analogs is approved to loss weight, at Typ 1 there are less or no medications with this approach (source). For Typ 1 it is more difficult, because the insulin therapy influence the "natural" system (i.e. GLP-1 and Amylin) of get weight and loss weight. So I ask myself, if there is some "diet" which can affect the GLP-1 level in a positive manner.
Additional: Same question with Amylin /Amylin analogs...)
Edit: I do not want to medicate myself. I am a Bioinformatics Programmer and want to understand my actual project.

A:

GLP-1 is a hormone secreted by intestinal lining cells, which increases insulin sensitivity and slows down gastric emptying, which both help to control blood glucose levels after meals. 
There are diets that stimulate the secretion of GLP-1 from the gut. It's not that foods contain GLP-1, but some foods can stimulate its secretion.
In some studies, virgin olive oil, which is typically a part of a Mediterranean diet, sunflower oil, pistachios, soluble fiber, and high-fiber grain products, nuts, avocados and eggs increased the secretion of GLP-1.
Is there any evidence that any of the mentioned foods help to control glucose levels in diabetes type 2? Well...
According to a 2017 meta analysis of cohort studies in Nutrition and Diabetes, there is an association between olive oil consumption and decreased risk of diabetes type 2.
High intake of cereal fiber may help to prevent diabetes type 2.
High intake of eggs (>7/week) is associated with increased risk of diabetes type 2.
It's not that including or excluding an individual food can help in diabetes; it's more about a diet as a whole: maintaining healthy weight, avoiding large meals and sugary drinks, eating whole grains...(niddk.nih.gov). 

