Q:

Confused by blood pressure terms

I'm doing some research into digital blood pressure monitors and I have come across some terms that I could use a hand with, thanks

Mean pressure
Empirical statistical oscillometric parameters
Systolic pressure

A:

According to this book (freely available on NCBI bookshelf: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK268/) Clinical Methods: The History, Physical, and Laboratory Examinations. 3rd edition.
Chapter 16: Blood Pressure by Walter A. Brzezinski.
Systolic blood (SBP) pressure corresponds to the maximum blood pressure during contraction of the ventricles
Diastolic pressure (DBP) is the minimum pressure recorded just prior to the next contraction.
The mean arterial pressure (MAP) is calculated by the formula:
MAP = (2DBP+SBP)/3
The mean arterial pressure is used to calculate overall blood flow and provides a good indication of the delivery of nutrients to the various organs.
It is also a good indicator of perfusion pressure (ΔP).
Oscillometric methods are used in automated BP monitors to calculate BP 1

Oscillometry is perhaps the most popular, non-invasive and automatic
blood pressure (BP) measurement method. This method employs
an inflatable arm cuff with a pressure sensor inside it. The measured
cuff pressure not only rises and falls with cuff inflation and
deflation but also shows tiny oscillations indicating the pulsatile
blood volume (BV) in the artery. The amplitude of these oscillations
varies with the applied cuff pressure, as the arterial stiffness is
nonlinear. BP values are then estimated from the oscillometric cuff
pressure waveform using population-based methods such as fixed-ratios.

So those "empirical statistical oscillometric parameters" are probably population-based parameters which are used to calculate and interpret the oscillations arrising during the measuring of the BP.
Sources:

Liu J, Cheng H, Chen C-H, Sung S-H, Hahn J-O, Mukkamala R. Model-Based Oscillometric Blood Pressure Measurement: Preliminary Validation in Humans. Conference proceedings : Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society Annual Conference. 2014;2014:1961-1964. doi:10.1109/EMBC.2014.6943997.

