Q:

What are the benefits of high testosterone in men?

It's common to hear about products that claim to be testosterone boosters for men and vitamins that boost testosterone, but what benefits does high testosterone actually entail? For example, are physical strength, libido, and mental capacity increased? Mental health discussion would be interesting too, if there's any association.

A:

What are the benefits of high testosterone in men?
what benefits does high testosterone actually entail?
Mental health discussion would be interesting too, if there's any
  association

Suggested Introduction
I think it is important to recognize that levels of the testosterone hormone in the male body decrease naturally in men with age.
The level of this hormone peaks in young men starting sometime after puberty, but usually in the late teenage or early twenty age range. Typically the level of this hormone in men starts to decrease between the ages of 30 - 40 or so, and at a slow rate; generally around one percent a year.

What happens to testosterone levels with age? (1)
Testosterone levels generally peaks during adolescence and early
  adulthood. As you get older, your testosterone level gradually
  declines — typically about 1 percent a year after age 30 or 40. (1)

Testosterone Effects (physical and mental)
As far as high testosterone levels and its benefits are concerned, I'll give a general breakdown of typical effects (physical and mental) but I will allow you to classify these as beneficial or not depending on your perspective of these effects.
Physical Associations with High Testosterone
High levels of testosterone starting in early adulthood contribute to puberty transformations in the male body such as: genital organ growth, sexual maturity and fertility, growth of body and facial hair, and deepening of the voice. Higher levels of testosterone are also associated with but not limited to increased metabolism (burn fat faster), increased muscle mass, strength, and bone density.

What is testosterone? (1)
Testosterone is a hormone produced primarily in the testicles.
Testosterone helps maintain men's:

Bone density
Fat distribution
Muscle strength and mass
Facial and body hair
Red blood cell production
Sex drive
Sperm production

Mental Associations with High Testosterone
High levels of testosterone is associated with but not limited to more aggressiveness and the effects of such behavior such as feeling more competitive. It also contributes to sleeping better and feeling well-rested, having more energy, increase in sexual desire and libido, heightened focus and concentration, and more self confidence and motivation. 

Central Nervous System (2)

The body has a system for controlling testosterone, sending messages
  through hormones and chemicals that are released into the bloodstream.
  In the brain, the hypothalamus tells the pituitary gland how much
  testosterone is needed, and the pituitary relays that information to
  the testicles. (2)
Testosterone plays a role in certain behaviors, including aggression
  and dominance. It also helps to spark competitiveness and boost
  self-esteem. Just as sexual activity can affect testosterone levels,
  taking part in competitive activities can cause a man’s testosterone
  levels to rise or fall. Low testosterone may result in a loss of
  confidence and lack of motivation. It can also lower a man’s ability
  to concentrate or cause feelings of sadness. Low testosterone can
  cause sleep disturbances and lack of energy. (2)
It’s important to note, however, that testosterone is only one factor
  that influences personality traits. Other biological and environmental
  factors are also involved. (2)

References

Testosterone therapy: Potential benefits and risks as you age (1)

Meet the Mayo Clinic Staff

The Effects of Testosterone on the Body (2)

Meet the Healthline Staff

