Q:

How exactly is hypoglycemia a problem?

I am not someone from Medical field. I am asking this question out of curiosity. My question is about sugar levels in blood, particularly low blood sugar (hypoglycemia).
I can understand the problem with high blood sugar levels (hyperglycemia) as we want sugar to be in the cells so that it can be used in respiration for generating energy.
But I can't quite understand why is hypoglycemia a problem.
Google search indicates that dangerously low levels of hypoglycemia can even cause brain death. Does not hypoglycemia mean that sugar is where it should be i.e. in the cells. When sugar is present there in brain cells instead of being in blood, how can it cause brain death as brain cells have enough fuel to burn for powering them?
Those stores of energy will only get depleted after some time (should last longer if the person in question is not active enough. Only if one does not replenish these depleted stores, this should be a problem (sort of starvation). But replenishment of stores is quite likely to occur in the meantime. Why is hypoglycemia a big problem then (even regarded  more serious than hyperglycemia)?
Please enlighten me about this issue. Please forgive me if you found my question silly or naive.

A:

Your tissue gets sugar from the blood (along with the other needed nutrients, and oxygen). Sugar is not stored in places like the brain, brain cells only take up enough sugar for what they need in the short term, because they ordinarily get constant fresh delivery of nutrients and oxygen from blood.
When you have hypoglycemia = low blood sugar, that means there isn't enough sugar available in the blood for tissues to use. It does not mean that the sugar is already in the cells. It's like if you go to the grocery store where you get your food and find they are out of food, it does not mean you have enough food already at home.
Similarly, the reason that hyperglycemia is a problem is not because the blood is keeping it unavailable to cells. Quite the opposite: when there is a lot of sugar in the blood, there's a lot of sugar in the cells, too: too much of it. Sugar in high concentrations is toxic to cells, causing unwanted chemical reactions and oxidative stress.

