Q:

Seasonal allergies home remedies

Like many I have seasonal allergies and spring time is hell
I am allergic to grass and tree pollen

Are there any home remedies that actually work ?
Any way to train body to adapt?

A:

Nettle-Peppermint Tea: Based on the mechanism of action, it should be noted that plain peppermint or used other ways should help. 

everyday-roots.com

peppermint contains a type of flavonoid called luteolin-7-O-rutinoside
  which can help inhibit the activity and secretion of anti-inflammatory
  enzymes, such as histamines, and greatly reduce the dreadful
  discomfort that comes along them.

Bee Pollen. This is said to work if local honey doesn't. Basically you take the allergens before the season to help build a immunity. The honey must be clean and free from insecticides. 

This study from 2013 showed a improving in allergy symptoms after honey in high doses over 8 weeks: Ingestion of honey improves the symptoms of allergic rhinitis: evidence from a randomized placebo-controlled trial in the East coast of Peninsular Malaysia.
everyday-roots.com

make sure you are not anaphylactic or severely allergic to bees, or so
  allergic to pollen that you experience anaphylaxis.

2011 study about Birch Pollen Honey between November and March helped reduce 60% of allergy symptoms. 

Citrus is suppose to help due to the fact that it nourished your immune system. But due to this ncbi article, it does not appear to be that effective.
Lavender oil inhalation: 

Lvn inhibits allergic inflammation and mucous cell hyperplasia with
  suppression of T-helper-2 cell cytokines and Muc5b expression in a
  murine model of asthma. Consequently, Lvn may be useful as an
  alternative medicine for bronchial asthma.

healthyfocus.org also lists some other oils that may help, such as eucalyptus, lemon and peppermint.

Onions are supposed to contain Quercetin  which is supposed to work similarly to anti-histamines to inhibit inflammation and secondarily bronchodilate. 

healthline.com supports research for onions helping relieve some allergy symptoms. 

