Q:

Is drinking cold water bad for you?

In general, I like to drink water that I consider cool. However my parents keep forcing me to drink warm (and sometimes hot) water as they said it is better for me.
Their reasoning was that cold water would 'freeze' up the fat consumed in my body, causing blockages. Additionally they said cold water will induce my body to produce more stomach acid.
What is the lowest temperature that is safe to drink for everyday consumption? Of course I don't want to drink freezing cold water.

A:

1. Freezing cold (4 °C) beverages do not increase the secretion of the gastric acid more than lukewarm or hot beverages, according to this study:
McArthur KE et al, Gastric acid secretion, gastrin release, and gastric emptying in humans as affected by liquid meal temperature (PubMed).

Coffee (360 mL) was infused into the stomach through a nasogastric
  tube at 58 (steaming hot), 37, or 4 degrees C (ice cold). Intragastric
  temperature, measured by an intragastric temperature sensor attached
  to the nasogastric tube, returned to body temperature 16.7 +/- 2.7 min
  after the hot meal and 23.8 +/- 1.1 min after the cold meal. Gastric
  acid secretion increased after hot, warm, and cold coffee but the
  initial temperature of the meal had no effect on gastric acid
  secretion.

2. Cold beverages slow down stomach emptying, that is passing of food from the stomach into the small intestine, according to this study:
Collares EF et al, 1981, Gastric emptying in children. I. Influence of the temperature of a hydration solution for oral use (PubMed) 

Each baby had measured its gastric emptying for two different
  temperature solutions, approximately 27 degrees C and 4 degrees C,
  room and cold temperature...The results showed a significant larger
  gastric retention for low temperature one.

This suggests that drinking cool water after the meals can slow down the digestion a bit and possibly cause an uncomfortable feeling of prolonged stomach fullness. This could be what the OP's parents referred to as "blockage."
As mentioned in the first study above, freezing cold (4 °C) coffee changes to the body temperature in about 20 minutes after it reaches the stomach, so it should not "freeze" the fats in the same sense as it can on the plate.
In conclusion, from the limited evidence presented above, it seems that cool water drunk with meals might cause some stomach discomfort after the meals. Someone would need to be quite observant to become aware of such feelings.

