Q:

Why are mRNA vaccines not yet available against other diseases?

The mRNA vaccines against developing COVID-19 are obviously the first approved mRNA vaccines. We are probably at the beginning of an mRNA vaccine evolution. I've recently read a very interesting article about the development of a potential Herpes Simplex (HSV-2) vaccine. https://www.precisionvaccinations.com/can-mrna-vaccines-defeat-herpes:

The goals of a HSV-2 vaccine are to keep the herpes virus dormant. Or if the virus escapes, prevent it from causing symptoms. ... This superior molecular response was consistent with symptom reduction - the mRNA vaccine was perfect in preventing genital disease (100%) and significantly reduced recurrent disease (98%). ... The risk of transmission (measured by days) was 2% with the protein vaccine, compared to 0% with the mRNA vaccine.

And a new mRNA vaccine against seasonal influenza (mRNA-1010, mRNA-1020, mRNA-1030), a HIV vaccine (mRNA-1644 & mRNA-1574) and the Nipah virus (NiV) vaccine (mRNA-1215) and others such as vaccines against Zika virus, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), CMV, RSV and hMPV. This all seems very promising. - https://investors.modernatx.com/news-releases/news-release-details/moderna-provides-business-update-and-announces-three-new. As well as a Malaria vaccine.
But my main question is, what is there to develop? Isn't the over simplified process of mRNA vaccine production not something like: identify, sequence, isolate, find a proper carrier, produce? I can imagine that once the general production of mRNA vaccines is available and approved that it is just matter of putting other genetic material in the vaccine carrier?

A:

A few-year-old review that might be useful is:
Pardi, N., Hogan, M., Porter, F. et al. mRNA vaccines — a new era in vaccinology. Nat Rev Drug Discov 17, 261–279 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1038/nrd.2017.243
The tricky part of creating an mRNA vaccine once the "platform" has been developed remains exactly what mRNA sequence do you put into it? Remember, the virus sequence is selected for infection and replication; the sequence for the vaccine should NOT do that, but still should generate an immune response that will stop the actual virus (perhaps antibodies, perhaps cellular, perhaps both). And of course, you don't want something that accidentally causes a bad side effect like a misdirected immune response.
For Covid, it turns out a key factor in creating successful vaccines has been pre-existing work to modify the spike protein so it holds a certain shape that normally is only transient: see https://cen.acs.org/pharmaceuticals/vaccines/tiny-tweak-behind-COVID-19/98/i38
In any case, you've still got to test your candidate to make sure it generates an effective immune response and doesn't have any major side effects.

