Q:

What are trustworthy food and nutrition information websites, without ties to food companies?

After watching the documentary Fed Up, I was inclined to look for trustworthy dietary advice online. Without getting into arguments about whether Fed Up makes a good argument about sugar consumption, one thing they did for sure was highlight the biases of some institutions like the USDA.
Now I'm trying to find (relatively) unbiased information about food and nutrition.
Some websites that seem popular:

eatright.org is run by Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, which is sponsored by food companies.
nutrition.gov is sponsored by the USDA, of which "promotion of agriculture production" is one of its stated goals.
authoritynutrition.com which is "based on studies and written by experts" - this doesn't pass the trustworthiness test.

So, can anyone recommend websites which base their advice on peer-reviewed scientific literature, and which do not have ties with the food production industry?
PS. I asked this question over at Skeptics.SE, but it was deemed offtopic there. It was suggested I might ask here. It does fit with the topic "Environmental or nutritional factors that affect health", but I'm not certain it describes a specific enough problem. Nevertheless, I hope it is useful to the audience of this site to have an answer to my question.

A:

Well, if you really want a website that offers easy to understand information that is based on scientific studies, then there is one site that I would recommend to you:
Nutritionfacts
It's basically driven by one Guy, Michael Greger M.D., who has a team of people who constantly dig through the latest scientific papers and bundle the information into easily digestible short videos and blog posts. Each video has a small button right of it which is easily overlooked, titled "Sources cited", where it lists all the sources for the information listed in the video.
Aside of these, there are longer videos at the bottom of the site titled "Nutrition Year-in-Review", which are recorded speeches of Mr. Greger where he summarizes the latest in nutrition science.

A:

You can try the Harvard Nutrition Source. It seems to be very science based, although outside interests are always present. I guess the best way to get scientific data is using and comparing various sources of data.

