Q:

Real dangers of CT Scan made only once at age of 31

I have zero medical knowledge (only the basic "common" ones) and I would like some opinions from you experts about CT Scan. 
My girlfriend had a CT scan done some days ago, and since then she's obsessively scared about a potential cancer risk due to the X-rays she absorbed with that. 
I believe (and she does it too somehow) she's over-exagerating, but she doesn't manage to get rid of that bad thought. 
Could anyone with some knowledge on the subject reference the real cancer risks of having a single CT scan in life, at the age of 31, when you're in perfect health? 
Note: I'm doing this just because I would like to help her easing a bit her feelings with some concrete and authoritative evidences on the "non-danger". I'm basically not looking for a real medical consultation. 

A:

CT brain at 31, what's the risk?
Short answer: Very little, compared to overall cancer risk*
Longer answer:
Your girlfriend is concerned about increased risk of brain malignancy due to having a CT at age 31. This is something that the FDA has weighed in on in a helpful summary page:

As in many aspects of medicine, there are both benefits and risks associated with the use of CT. The main risks are those associated with

test results that demonstrate a benign or incidental finding, leading to unneeded, possibly invasive, follow-up tests that may present additional risks and
the increased possibility of cancer induction from x-ray radiation exposure.

The probability for absorbed x-rays to induce cancer or heritable mutations leading to genetically associated diseases in offspring is thought to be very small for radiation doses of the magnitude that are associated with CT procedures.

(all emphases mine)
Hold on, the effective dose is much higher than a chest x-ray!
The article goes into further detail, and there is a comparison of radiation doses in a table. It is tempting to conclude that since the dose is much higher than a chest X-ray, the risk is also much higher. However, the article covers this:

A CT examination with an effective dose of 10 millisieverts (abbreviated mSv; 1 mSv = 1 mGy in the case of x-rays.) may be associated with an increase in the possibility of fatal cancer of approximately 1 chance in 2000.

And further:

If you combine the natural risk of a fatal cancer and the estimated risk from a 10 mSv CT scan, the total risk may increase from 400 chances in 2000 to 401 chances in 2000.

(both emphases mine again)
The absolute risk increase is relatively small.
To put it another way: if someone were to (unfortunately) develop an ultimately-fatal cancer having had a CT scan; it would be unlikely that the cancer was a result of the CT scan.
These things do matter on a larger scale, when considering populations; but your girlfriend can (hopefully) put this fear behind her.
So what do I say?
That being said, sometimes medical fears or those around adverse effects can be tricky to let go of. We are adept at spotting patterns, and if something happens after the fact, we tend to assume it happened as a result of the fact.
If she is amenable, a sensitive discussion about what happened in the lead up and around the time of the CT may let your girlfriend express some previously-unexpressed fears or emotions, and hopefully move past her worry about the risk of malignancy from the CT itself. If the vents were traumatic, or if she does feel it's 'obsessive', she may benefit from discussing it in counselling- some folks have the perception that counselling is only for the most deeply troubled or traumatic of events; but it can help in a very wide variety of circumstances.

* Astute readers will point out that there is some debate over the data used to model risk; these still tend to consider the bigger picture of population risk (eg 70 million CT scans year-1 in the US)

Further Reading:

FDA page on CT radiation risks
FDA explanation of radiation quantities and units
"Radiation Risk From Medical Imaging"

