Q:

What steps can I take to prevent a seizure from occurring?

An epileptic seizure is a transient occurrence of signs and/or
  symptoms due to abnormally excessive or synchronous neuronal activity
  in the brain. - Wiley Online Library

What can I do to prevent myself from getting a epileptic seizure? Cause-effect answers that explain triggers would be appreciated.

A:

I have found following peer-reviewed paper which provides a review of the nonpharmaceutic conservative interventions for the prevention of seizures:
Wolf P. The role of nonpharmaceutic conservative interventions in the treatment and secondary prevention of epilepsy. Epilepsia. 2002;43 Suppl 9:2-5. 1
It says (I have kept the essential parts):

The first step is the identification of factors facilitating the
  occurrence of seizures. In the second step, strategies to control
  these factors are developed. Most common are disturbances of the
  sleep-wake cycle, especially reduction of sleep. Patients should
  follow a regular sleep schedule with deviations of not >2 h. Sometimes
  a sleep calendar is helpful. Night shifts are not compatible with
  seizure prevention in these cases. (...) Other nonspecific
  facilitators of seizures include uncontrolled use of alcohol and
  extraordinary stress. Patients must learn how to cope with stressful
  events.

It also provides some preventive measures for specific types of epilepsies:

In reflex epilepsies, specific precipitants of seizures are the
  targets of interventions. Thus, most patients with primary reading
  epilepsy begin to have, with prolonged reading, perioral reflex
  myoclonias, which enable them to stop reading and thus to avoid a GTC
  seizure. In photosensitive patients, seizures are often precipitated
  by television. These can be avoided by viewing from a distance and
  using a remote control, small screens in a well-lit room, and
  preferably with a 100-Hz line shift. Environmental flicker stimulation
  often comes unexpectedly, and it is advisable that the patients always
  wear sunglasses in brightly lighted surroundings. Polarized glasses
  seem to be more protective than plain sunglasses. If the patient has
  only photically induced seizures, treatment by specific prevention
  alone may be sufficient, but if spontaneous seizures also occur, drugs
  must be given in addition.

Hope this helps!

