Q:

Best type of flu shot

This October I am going to new Doctor who is close to my home. Old Doctor passed away. 
I went to CDC website and it lists many type of flu shots 
http://www.cdc.gov/flu/protect/vaccine/vaccines.htm
In general:
What type of vaccine would be good for healthy lady in mid-30s?
What type of vaccine would be good for elderly who are somewhat active, doing stuff around the house, but suffer the regular aches and pains, who are early 70s?

A:

The 2015 Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) does not express a preference for use of any particular product over another for persons for whom more than one type of vaccine is appropriate and available.
The major recommendations concern age, state of health, allergies (some vaccines are specifically recommended for people allergic to eggs or to previous vaccines, pregnancy, etc.), fear of needles (there are multiple ways now to receive influenza vaccines including microneedle intradermal doses, intramuscular jet, and nasal, along with the routine IM injection), timing of the vaccine (especially in the elderly and young).
A previous severe allergic reaction to influenza vaccine, regardless of the component suspected of being responsible for the reaction, is a contraindication to future receipt of the vaccine.
Basically, if the vaccine (in the US) is FDA approved, it should be fine.

What type of vaccine would be good for healthy lady in mid-30s[?]

Assuming that you're not pregnant, in the absence of data (recent studies including the 2014 flu season) demonstrating consistent greater relative effectiveness of the current quadrivalent formulation of Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine (LAIV), preference for LAIV over Inactivated Influenza Vaccine (IIV) is no longer recommended. 
In your age range and state of health, you should avoid the LAIV if

you've experienced severe allergic reactions to the vaccine or any of its components, or to a previous dose of any influenza vaccine
you have a history of egg allergy
you've taken influenza antiviral medications within the previous 48 hours
you care for severely immunosuppressed persons who require a protective environment 

If you live with someone with bad asthma, you might want to consult your doctor about which vaccine is better for you.

What type of vaccine would be good for elderly who are somewhat active, doing stuff around the house, but suffer the regular aches and pains, who are early 70s?

Well, they should avoid the LAIV. In addition, they should consult their doctor if they have any medical conditions, and for information about the timing of the vaccine (the optimal timing for those over 65 varies from continent to continent and even country to country.) 
Given all the above, I have only ever been asked, "Are you allergic to eggs?" before getting a flu shot!
Prevention and Control of Influenza with Vaccines: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, United States, 2015–16 Influenza Season

