Q:

Most probable causes of obesity

I've read https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/obesity/causes/ containing the list of many causes of obesity. I'm interested in the numerical distribution, i.e. out of 100 obese people how many eat too many calories, how many have a poor diet and how many don't do enough physical activity. Is data about this available publicly?
More specifically, I'd like to get answers to these questions, based on scientific studies:

Out of 100 obese people how many eat more calories than the average healthy, non-obese person of their age and gender?
Out of 100 obese people how many have a poorer diet than the average healthy, non-obese person of their age and gender?
Out of 100 obese people how many do less physical activity than the average healthy, non-obese person of their age and gender?

By knowing these numbers governments would have a better idea how to fight obesity: e.g. should they promote food with fewer calories, or should they promote physical activity? (However, this is just an example, and in this question I'm interested in the numbers above rather than on the best ways for governments to fight obesity.)
I understand that obesity is caused by a combination of factors, and for helping a person become less obese, all factors should be considered personally for them. Nevertheless, I'm still interested in the numbers above.
I understand that even these numbers don't paint the full picture, because we don't know e.g. how many of them eat more calories and do less physical activity (at the same time).
I also understand that it's possible to eat (a bit) more and not become obese, e.g. if also doing more physical activity.
If there are similar factor breakdown numbers available publicly, I'm interested in them.

A:

What you are seeking cannot in scientific terms exist.  The reason is that obesity is caused by a combination of the issues you are talking about.
The term "poor diet" is a general term which can mean different things in different circumstances and in different contexts.  A diet high in sugars would be very poor for someone who is diabetic, for example, no matter what their weight is.
As the NHS page you cited points out in simple terms

Obesity is generally caused by eating too much and moving too little.

A poor diet in the context of fighting obesity levels is a diet higher in calories than required.
If you consume more energy in the form of foods and drink, than you burn off through exercise and physical activity, much of the surplus energy will be stored by the body as fat.
The energy value of food is measured in units called calories (kcal).
Generally speaking, the average physically active man needs about 2,500 calories a day to maintain a healthy weight, and the average physically active woman needs about 2,000 calories a day (See your NHS link).
If you are more sedentary than the average person, the amount of calories you consume will need to be lower to balance that out.
Some of calories are burnt off keeping you alive. It's the amount of energy required to maintain basic bodily functions while at rest, such as regulating body temperature, keeping the heart beating, and breathing. This is called the "basal metabolic rate" or BMR and it accounts for about 2/3 of the total calories burned each day.

It's true: just sitting on the couch staring into space requires that you burn some calories (Harvard Medical School, 2018).

The BMR varies from person to person.

Some people have higher BMRs than others (although this variability is not usually the reason someone is obese or lean). And BMR can vary over time; it may speed up when you're sick or if you've added muscle mass or it may slow down with age or when you're losing weight. In fact, a slowing metabolic rate is one reason dieters have such a hard time continuing to lose weight or tend to regain lost weight. Certain medical conditions (such as thyroid disease) and medications can affect BMR (Harvard Medical School, 2018).

The remaining calories consumed which is not burnt off at the BMR is what you need to burn off with physical activity, whether it is exercise at a gym or swimming  pool, or walking around etc.
If you burn more calories than you consume, you will lose the excess body fat put on when not exercising.
References
Harvard Medical School (2018). Burning calories without exercise. Retrieved from: https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/burning-calories-without-exercise

A:

From the title of the question: What are most probable causes of obesity?
There is a single cause of obesity: greater amount of calories consumed then burned.
From the body of the question: Out of 100 obese people, how many eat more calories, how many are not physically active enough...:
This is not possible to answer because: 

High calorie intake alone does not cause obesity. A known US swimmer said that during a certain period he was consuming 8-10,000 calories per day and, apparently, he did not become obese, because of regular training (USA Today).
A bedridden person with nearly zero physical activity does not become obese if he/she consumes only the amount of calories he/she spends (for example, about 1,500/day).
The poorest/unhealthiest/most fatty/most sugary diet on the world does not make you obese if it is not hypercaloric, so "poor diet" by itself is not a cause but can be a risk factor for obesity.
Individuals with genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, become obese only if they consume excessive calories, so genetics alone is not a cause but can be a risk factor for obesity.

Some health organizations that are concerned about public health have made the estimations of the number of overweight/obese individuals by region, sex, etc. They know the risk factors (mentioned above) and they know the trends about how these factors change with time (see below). What they do not know is how many people eat too much and how many do not exercise enough. Such estimations are probably more meaningful on a personal than public level.   
Statistics of increased weight at the world level (World Health Organization, 2016):

In 2016, more than 1.9 billion adults (39%), 18 years and older, were overweight. Of these over 650 million (13% of all) were obese.
Over 340 million children and adolescents aged 5-19 were overweight or obese in 2016.
41 million children under the age of 5 were overweight or obese in 2016.
Worldwide obesity has nearly tripled since 1975.

Overweight: BMI = 25-30; obese = BMI >30. BMI (body mass index) = person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of his height in meters (kg/m2).
The following is the closest from what I found about the relationship between calorie intake and the number of obese individuals:
Share of adult men overweight or obese vs. daily supply of calories, 1975 to 2013 (Our World in Data):
See this graph: X axis is daily calorie supply (per capita); Y axis is the percent of overweight or obesity in a country/region. You can see that United States have more than 3,500 calorie supply per capita per day and that more than 70% of their adult males are overweight or obese.
The trends of risk factors of obesity, according to World Health Organization:

The fundamental cause of obesity and overweight is an energy imbalance
  between calories consumed and calories expended. Globally, there has
  been:

an increased intake of energy-dense foods that are high in fat and
an increase in physical inactivity due to the increasingly sedentary nature of many forms of work

They obviously care only about the trends and not the number of people with increased calorie intake or physical inactivity.

