Q:

Flickering/flashing in corner of eye and nausea when exposed to certain patterns

Before I begin I'd like to say that I've already seen an ophthalmologist who has since referred me to a ophthalmic neurologist. I'm asking because this is freaking me out and I was hoping for some explanation. Preferably one I can take to my doctor and ask ``is this it?"
So the problem is that certain patterns will cause shimmering and flashing out of the corner of my left eye. It isn't an issue with my right eye. For what it's worth, I'm more near-sighted in my left eye, but I wear corrective lenses for that.
It kind of looks like this: https://youtu.be/QZYpEMp87Xo?t=21, but not exactly. As for what patterns trigger it, strait lines. Like you may find on jeans, on some coats (the lapel of my London Fog), other peoples striped dress shirts. Even words on a page can cause this to a lesser extent.
As for the nausea...it's nausea. It's not so bad that I'll vomit, but it's very unpleasant.
This doesn't happen unless triggered by the way, and the ophthalmologist said my eye is structurally sound.
To be clear, I'm not asking for advice. That's why I've seen one doctor already and he, in turn, has sent me to someone who specializes specifically in neurological conditions involving the eye/sight. I'm really just looking for some piece of mind as I wait.

A:

If someone feels unwell or headachy after looking at particular patterns, it's likely to be migraine.

We investigated stripe-induced visual discomfort and its relation to migraine. Some people find viewing striped patterns aversive. Prior work has suggested that migraineurs, in particular, are bothered by stripes. Subjects were selected by opportunity sampling. They were shown striped patterns and asked questions about their general health and their headache history, if any. Of the 102 subjects, 38 were diagnosed as having migraine headaches, 22 had nonmigraine headaches, and 42 were considered to be nonheadache subjects; 82% of those with migraines were stripe sensitive while only 6.2% without migraines were stripe sensitive. We conclude that stripe aversiveness is related to migraine headaches and can assist differentiation of migraine and nonmigraine headaches.

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2803073

