Q:

Do the metabolisms of anorexic individuals ever recover?

Following my fascination with what is commonly referred to as 'metabolism,' I realized that I know a few "recovered anorexics" (please let me know if there is a better term), all of whom maintain normal weight on a normal lifestyle, and one of whom has decided to become a dietician to help others with the condition.
It occurred to me that while these individuals now eat basically normally, they also don't seem to have a propensity to gain weight above that which would be expected of others of their ages, genders and backgrounds. This would seem very odd considering some only a few months earlier had BMIs below 15, eating under 500 calories a day.
The question is, therefore:
Do metabolisms, or more specifically the normal ability to process "normal" amounts of food for energy while maintaining "normal" weight, of individuals with anorexia nervosa recover, and in what way?

A:

They appear to. 
In Caloric consumption and activity levels after weight recovery in anorexia nervosa: a prolonged delay in normalization, researchers looked at anorexia patients 2 to 6 weeks after what is called "refeeding", and patients 6 months after. 

Patients with anorexia nervosa, in the weeks after achieving target
  weight and terminating refeeding, have elevated levels of activity and
  caloric intake, compared to normal controls. In contrast, caloric intake
  and activity in anorectics who had maintained weight for months after
  weight recovery were similar to controls.

So they were maintaining weight at the same amount of calories that people without a history of anorexia were also maintaining their weight at.
The same was found in this study: Resting metabolic rate and total energy expenditure in acute and weight recovered patients with anorexia nervosa and in healthy young women

No significant differences were found between the weight-recovered anorectic women and the healthy controls in RMR (1,330 ± 131 kcal/day [weight-recovered]; 1,419 ± 197 [controls]) and in TEE (2,602 ± 637 kcal/day [weight-recovered]; 2,596 ± 493 kcal/day [controls]).

RMR = Resting Metabolic Rate; TEE = Total Energy Expenditure 
Both studies had small sample sizes though. 
During recovery, patients recovering from anorexia need more calories than expected for weight gain, which is called hypermetabolic, but that period ends at around 4 to 6 months. 
Nutritional rehabilitation in anorexia nervosa: review of the literature and implications for treatment (figure 2)

