Q:

Why does dandruff shampoo loose effectiveness without shampoo alternation?

I've heard often 1 2 that alternation between anti-dandruff shampoos containing ketoconazole, zinc pyrithione, coal tar, selenium disulfide or salicylic acid is needed for the treatment to stay effective.
How come that after using the same anti-dandruff shampoo for a while it will be less effective? Also why is the same substance effective again after alternation between other shampoos? Does the dandruff itself changes and becomes (short-term) immune for a specific treatment or is there another reason?

1 Bhupinder Kaur MD, Jul 19, 2011. https://www.medhelp.org/posts/Dermatology/-Bhupinder-Kaur--MD/show/1554999
2 Abraham The Pharmacist, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DbV9bY4gD_Q&feature=youtu.be&t=149

A:

Malassezia overgrowth is thought be the cause of most cases of dandruff (1) and rotating treatments avoids the development of resistance. However, some have argued that overgrowth of Malassezia is a result rather than a cause of dandruff (2).
1 - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4852869
2 - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2887514

A:

Currently, there seems to be no convincing evidence to say that alternating between shampoos prolongs their effectiveness in treating dandruff.
1) According to the Scientific Committee on Cosmetic Products and Non-food Products Intended for Consumers by European Commission, 2012:

There is at present no scientific evidence of development of
  resistance or cross-resistance of fungi to Ketoconazole, if
  Ketoconazole is used in cosmetic dandruff shampoo at concentrations up
  to 2 %.

2) Drugs.com, 2019 and FDA.gov, 2012 also do not mention any resistance to ketoconazole topical.
3) In this 2017 study, (Fig 2), they've observed that some strains of Malassezia fungi are resistant to ketoconazole, but this seems to be intrincis resistance, not the one that develops with repeated use, so alternating between shampoos would not work.
4) One source suggests that some people with seborrheic dermatitis can be resistant to topical treatments:

For patients with persistent SD resistant to topical agents, oral
  antifungals may be an option. Oral itraconazole given in a dose of
  200mg/day for one week, followed by a maintenance dose, resulted in
  clinical improvement of SD symptoms in two open-label trials.

...but again, alternating shampoos here would not likely help.
5) Several comprehensive review articles about treatment of dandruff do not even mention "resistance" to anti-dandruff shampoos or the need for "alternation" of shampoos:

DANDRUFF: THE MOST COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED SKIN DISEASE (Indian Journal of Dermatology, 2010)
Treatment of Seborrheic Dermatitis (American Family Physician, 2000)
Seborrheic Dermatitis and Dandruff: A Comprehensive Review (Journal of Clinical and Investigative Dermatology, 2015)
Drug Products for the Control of Dandruff, Seborrheic Dermatitis, and Psoriasis (U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 2019)
Is It Dandruff or Seborrheic Dermatitis? (U.S. Pharmacist, 2013)

6) Another source claims that a combination, but not alternation, of substances could be used to circumverent resistance: 

Cosmetic and personal care products (anti-acne, anti-dandruff,
  anti-odorant, prickly heat talc, etc) use synthetic antimicrobials
  like Triclosan, Farnesol, Zinc Pyrithione etc or herbal extracts for
  the anti-microbial 'functional' benefit. The use of single
  anti-microbial agent would pave way for emergence of resistance in the
  cosmetically significant skin micro-organisms. To combat the
  development of resistance and deliver the anti-microbial benefit, a
  combination of synergistic antimicrobials can be used.

A couple of sources recommend alternating shampoos, but without any argumentation:
Mayo Clinic:

If one type of shampoo works for a time and then seems to lose its
  effectiveness, try alternating between two types of dandruff shampoos.

Virginia Commonwealth University:

Alternating medicated shampoos on a daily basis may also increase
  their effectiveness (eg, ketoconazole on Monday, zinc on Tuesday,
  selenium on Wednesday, tar on Thursday, etc).

