Q:

When somebody has ARDS, when is non-mechanical ventilation used, vs mechanical ventilation? (I'm talking no intubation, no sedation)

I'm a lay person.
When somebody has ARDS, when is non-mechanical ventilation used, vs mechanical ventilation? 
(I'm talking no intubation, no sedation)
From what I understand, mechanical ventilation involves air being forced in, rather than breathed in naturally.
Added elaboration
This is not answered here When can mechanical ventilation be performed without intubation?
That question is asking about an A and a B, where A is with intubation and B is not.
But my question is asking about an A and a B, where both A and B are without intubation. But A is non-mechanical ventilation and B is mechanical ventilation.

A:

To clarify there are different types of ventilation where ventilation means to assist the delivery of oxygen to a patient.
Non-invasive Ventilation (NIV)

Without significantly increasing pressure in the airways

Masks
high flow nasal cannula 

Positive airways pressure  

CPAP
BPAP

Negative Pressure Ventilation

Iron lungs

Invasive Ventilation

intubation or tracheostomy delivered

It sounds like you're asking when treating a case of ARDS when does one switch from using a mask/cannula to using CPAP/BPAP.

Several types of helmets are commercially available in Europe, each with different features. There are no helmets commercially available for use with NIV in the US, but one helmet is approved for use in bariatric chambers to protect against excessively high oxygen tensions. This graphic shows a representative image of helmet interface used to deliver noninvasive ventilation. Shown are ventilation ports for the administration and removal of gas flow and a rubber seal at the neck, while others have additional optional features including ports for the introduction of catheters and under-arm straps for extra security to ensure a tight seal.

ARDS is by definition a severe illness and it's usually only at the very early stages that a patient can be managed using NIV positive airways pressure ventilation. 

Noninvasive ventilation (NIV; ie, ventilation via a mask or nasal prongs with breaths delivered by a NIV device) may be reserved for the occasional patient with mild ARDS who is hemodynamically stable, is easily oxygenated, does not need immediate intubation, and has no contraindications to its use. This approach is based upon our experience and conflicting data regarding the benefit of NIV (eg, prevention of intubation, improved mortality) in this population. Importantly, when NIV is implemented, frequent evaluation is necessary and clinicians should have a low threshold for intubation.

However, there are risks from such an approach

In contrast, a study of patients with hypoxemic respiratory failure, many of whom had ARDS, reported increased mortality in association with NIV when compared with patients treated with high flow nasal cannula (HFNC)

So, at least some studies suggest that switching from masks/cannula to using positive airways pressure could increase mortality.  Whereas other studies suggest using a helmet may reduce the mortality and increase the number of days free of intubation.
https://www.uptodate.com/contents/ventilator-management-strategies-for-adults-with-acute-respiratory-distress-syndrome

A:

Obviously depends on the exact case at hand, but from what I know, non mechanical ventilation (ie. Venti mask, etc.) Is only used for very mild ARDS where there is fairly good oxygenation and the patient is hemodynamically stable (good blood pressure and heart rate), able to keep their airway open, no copious secretions, etc. (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=22020236). In moderate or severe ARDS, intubation is usually used (most cases end up requiring at least some form of ventilation). 
Yes, you are absolutely correct. Mechanical ventilation is when there is pressure forcing air in, while non mechanical is not forcing any air in and rather providing more oxygen flow. 

