Q:

Does hair gel damage your hair?

I've been using hair gel for years now ( Taft gel from Schwarzkopf ), and after a day of using said gel when I scratch my hair there is a small amount of hair i take of glued up togheter. I‘m too young to go bold naturally.  So can a certain type of gel couse a personal hair loss.

A:

There are two main things to consider here:

What kind of hairloss is there?
What is in the product that is applied to the hair?

concerning 1:  All humans loose their hair, constantly. That is part of the life cycle of hair und usually goes quite unnoticed when the hair is short and is progressively more obvious when the hair was allowed to grow longer.  

The average adult head has about 100,000 to 150,000 hairs and loses up to 100 of them a day; finding a few stray hairs on your hairbrush is not necessarily cause for alarm.  At any one time, about 90% of the hair on a person's scalp is growing. Each follicle has its own life cycle that can be influenced by age, disease, and a wide variety of other factors. This life cycle is divided into three phases: 1. Anagen -- active hair growth that lasts between two to six years 2. Catagen -- transitional hair growth that lasts two to three weeks
  3. Telogen -- resting phase that lasts about two to three months; at the end of the resting phase the hair is shed and a new hair replaces it and the growing cycle starts again.

Especially in males going bald with age is very common. 
If it is this kind of genetic fate or because of underlying medical conditions (toxins, too much supplements…) asking questions on the web is no the best course of action. For that a medical examination is needed and prescriptions for finasterid or hair transplants are equally unsuitable for 'the cloud'. Since hairloss might be just a cosmetic issue of aesthetics or an indication for serious issues a visit to a medical practitioner is strongly advised.
concerning 2.: Checking for the ingredients of a specially preferred product mentioned in the qustion reveals that among other substances it contains some that are found to be of varying concern: 

PEG-40, PEG-70: tensides, weakens the barrier function of skin 
Triethanolamine: immune system disruptor, potential allergen, irritant, nitrosamine producer
Acrylates / Steareth-20 Methacrylate Copolymer: weakens barrier function of skin
Disodium Edta:  weakens cell membranes
Polyester-5: the glue in the gel
Phenoxyethanol: preservative, negative influence on immune system and nervous system, potential allergen
Propylene Glycol: negative influence on immune system, potential allergen, suspected of being toxic or harmful to health 
Citral: potent allergen

That means it is not an unrealistic assumption that indeed the product just causes trouble. It is a conglomerate of questionable ingredients. But that is far from certain! All of these substances are allowed in cosmetics after all. None of them is listed as directly causes premature hair loss. 
One explanation to consider is the perceptual issue of an aging man in panic finding these hairs: As stated earlier, hairs are constantly falling out. If some of them were glued together with gel before falling out that might just mean they did not increase in number; but that they only became much more noticeable that way.
Using anything on hair is typically not necessary. If something is supicious: stop using it and watch if conditions improve.

