Q:

Is the WHO guideline on registering covid-19 deaths very expansive?

In this WHO guidelines document: Guidelines for certification classification of covid-19 as cause of death, it says:

2. DEFINITION FOR DEATHS DUE TO COVID-19
A death due to COVID-19 is defined for surveillance purposes as a death resulting from a
clinically compatible illness, in a probable or confirmed COVID-19
case, unless there is a clear alternative cause of death that cannot
be related to COVID disease (e.g. trauma). There should be no period
of complete recovery from COVID-19 between illness and death.
A death due to COVID-19 may not be attributed to another disease (e.g.
cancer) and should be counted independently of preexisting conditions
that are suspected of triggering a severe course of COVID-19.

Now, suppose I have advanced-stage cancer (to follow the example in the quote); and also, a lab test established with certainty that I am is infected with a SARS-nCoV-2 virus variant (so we can ignore the "probable" case for the sake of the example). Then some time later I die.
Now, ignoring the guidelines - it could be that I am an asymptomatic covid-19 carrier, who died from cancer; and it could be that I died from the combined effect of covid-19 and my cancer; and it might also be that my cancer did not have significant effect on my death and I died "purely" from covid-19.
If I'm reading the guidelines correctly, it seems like in my case I will be registered as having died from covid-19 regardless of how exactly I died, even if it can be reasonably established that covid-19 was not actually a contributing factor.
Am I misreading or misinterpreting? Or is the guideline just very expansive?

A:

I would say that the guideline gives physicians quite a bit of leeway in determining a death is caused by COVID-19. The standard is not "any positive test + death = COVID-caused death"; it gives 2 necessary criteria and two exclusions:

a clinically compatible illness

in a probable or confirmed COVID-19 case

unless there is a clear alternative cause of death that cannot be related to COVID disease

There should be no period of complete recovery from COVID-19 between illness and death

The phrase "clinically compatible" is the part I see as giving discretion above and beyond the exception for "clear alternative cause of death". I don't immediately see a definition of this phrase from the WHO (though I also don't think a definition is necessary, the meaning can be deduced from the meaning of the words), but the CDC does have a definition here for "clinically compatible case":

Clinically compatible case: a clinical syndrome generally compatible with the disease, but no specific clinical criteria need to be met unless they are noted in the case classification.

Clinically compatible illness is slightly different, but in plain terms I would say that this is requiring a clinical presentation associated with the illness; for COVID-19, that would mean presenting symptoms of a respiratory illness, possibly with fever and other associated systemic symptoms. I cannot see how an asymptomatic infection could be considered a "clinically compatible illness" contributing to death; sure, I suppose someone could decide to mark such a death as in your example as related to COVID-19, but nothing in this guideline says clearly they have to in order to comply with the guideline.
A tumor would not be a clinically compatible illness, because tumors are not an observed feature of COVID-19 infection. If a patient is immune-suppressed due to cancer or cancer treatment, and this immune suppression made them susceptible to COVID-19 and they developed pneumonia and died, however, that would be a case clinically compatible with COVID-19 and the guideline is clear that they should be counted, and that they should not be excluded even if their physicians determine that COVID-19 only caused their death because they also had cancer and they would have otherwise survived.

