Q:

How low can you go on a low salt diet?

I'm sensitive to salt and am considering doing a salt-free diet. Is it ok if I remove salt and seasonings from my diet and cooking altogether? Will the sodium content of natural foods like oats, milk, fruits and chicken be enough to sustain long-term health?

A:

Assuming you are healthy, you will likely naturally regulate your sodium intake to appropriate levels. (Sodium is highly regulated by the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.) Too low and too high are both possible, and I would not attempt to manipulate sodium intake without without measuring or calculating current intake first.
If you are thirsty, you are either not getting enough water or eating too much salt. If you are craving salty foods, you're either drinking too much or not eating enough salt. Excessively high or low salt intake over long periods of time alters RAAS activity (otherwise serum sodium levels would be affected), so changes should be made gradually. Before making significant changes to your diet, you should consult your physician.

Decreasing salt intake had been recommended to decrease blood pressure. In "Why Should I Limit Sodium?" (pdf), The American Heart Association states:

Having less sodium in your diet may help you lower or avoid high blood pressure. People with high blood pressure are more likely to develop heart disease or have a stroke.

However, note that blood pressure is a proxy indicator with many causes that may have nothing to do with your overall health or how long you live. It is also possible for blood pressure to be too low (shock). No blood pressure = No life.
Many studies have not collected data on extremely low-levels of sodium intake, so no conclusion can be drawn from those studies about the safety of low sodium intake. More recently, data has been collected showing that very low levels are associated with increased mortality. These outcomes are reasonable because Na/K-ATPase requires sodium to function. Some well known poisons (digitalis, ouabain) work by disabling the sodium-potassium pump. No salt = No life.
Here is a graph from BMJ: Joint association of urinary sodium and potassium excretion with cardiovascular events and mortality: prospective cohort study.

And a similar graph from NEJM: Urinary Sodium and Potassium Excretion, Mortality, and Cardiovascular Events.

Of interest:

JAMA: Fatal and Nonfatal Outcomes, Incidence of Hypertension, and Blood Pressure Changes in Relation to Urinary Sodium Excretion
NEJM: Urinary Sodium and Potassium Excretion, Mortality, and Cardiovascular Events
BMJ: Joint association of urinary sodium and potassium excretion with cardiovascular events and mortality: prospective cohort study
Conflicting Evidence on Health Effects Associated with Salt Reduction Calls for a Redesign of the Salt Dietary Guidelines.
Clinical Science: Normal-sodium diet compared with low-sodium diet in compensated congestive heart failure: is sodium an old enemy or a new friend?
AJH: Compared With Usual Sodium Intake, Low- and Excessive-Sodium Diets Are Associated With Increased Mortality: A Meta-Analysis

