Q:

How is adding up action potentials equivalent to measuring the direction of depolarization vectors?

An ECG of the heart measured from lead II looks like this:

I have seen two ways of arriving at this image, the first is by considering the depolarization and the repolarization vectors and their direction's relative to lead II, like in the image below:

The other way was by adding up all the action potentials produced by myocariocytes

My question is how do these two methods arrive at the same ECG image, how is adding up action potentials equivalent to measuring the direction of depolarization(repolarization) vectors?

A:

Electrocardiography (ECG)
ECG Leads
Firstly, it is important to clarify that a lead (like lead 2) does not refer to one of the electrodes on the patient. Each lead represents the potential difference between two of the electrodes. In the case of Lead 2, it is the potential difference between the electrodes on the left leg and the right arm.
The vectors of the standard leads are approximately in the coronal plane, while the vectors of the chest leads are in the transverse plane (the chest leads V1-V6 represent the potential difference between the left leg electrode and the corresponding chest electrode).
The augmented leads (aVR and aVF) are mathematical derivations based on the others.
Thus, the leads taken together provide a three-dimensional representation of the average electrical potential through the body (and by minimising other muscle movement, what is left is electrical activity due to the heart).

Fig 1: Electrical axis of ECG leads (from ECGpedia.org)
ECG Waveform
As regards why we arrive at the same approximate ECG tracing, remember each lead is unaware (as it were) of any individual electrical potentials within different components of the heart; they only measure the average depolarisation along their vector over time, through every part of the body between the two electrodes.
Each lead assesses the depolarisation from a different perspective, so the leads vary in the relative positive or negative deflection.
For example, a wave of depolarisation moving perpendicular (orthogonal) to the vector of the electrodes (on average) will not be detected. Lead 2 is often used to detect the rhythm as the depolarisation in the atria is propagated directly along the vector of lead 2, leading to the positive deflection of a P wave. Conversely, P waves are often quite flat in aVL, as the vector of average depolarisation over the atria is approximately orthogonal to aVL (see diagram above).
Because all the leads are measuring the same thing at the same time, and because the heart has a set sequence (thanks to the SA and AV nodes), the tracings of each lead look broadly similar in terms of timing.
Vectors
As to why summing the overall vectors works, this is just how vectors work mathematically. They represent quantities where the direction is important, as opposed to scalar quantities, which only have a value.

Fig 2: Vector addition (from grc.nasa.gov)
It is useful to think of the value you see in a given lead at any point in time representing the total addition and subtraction of all electrical vectors (relative to that lead).
See more about vectors here and vector addition at this NASA page.

