Q:

Could sleep apena outcomes be improved by adding sensors to measure the location and movement of the jaw?

"When you are a hammer", the proverb goes, "everything looks like a nail".
To my knowledge current apnea testing involves a multitude of sensors that record the position of various parts of the body but do not evaluate the position and motions of the jaw and the number of apnea events indicates either a go/no-go decision about CPAP.
However, the location of the jaw can in some cases be manipulated by a physical appliance resulting in a relatively simple, passive solution.
In fact, armed with sufficient data it may be possible to identify currently unidentified jaw and dental problems that might be creating or contributing significantly to the apnea.
In addition the collected data may lead to other insights such as a patient shown to be grinding their teeth, resting their jaw on their hand during sleep, etc. 
I would imagine that all that would be involved is a sensor on the skull (already present) and one (or better yet, three, for each axis) on the jaw.
Note: At the heart of this is my suspicion that dental and jaw issues account for a significant part of apnea, confirmed by the efficacy of the new appliance.
Related:
Has a correlation between sleep apnea and grinding of teeth been identified or ruled out?

A:

There are specialists who do different degrees of positional assessments - specifically orthodontists, dentists, or maxillofacial surgeons (usually those who specialize in TMJ).  Also, some practicing D.O. physicians and massage therapists who specialize in cranial OMT may address positioning.
OSA is not the only potential complication of poor mandibular alignment (or TMD); it can cause headaches, dizziness, tooth wear, sensitivity, clicking, jaw pain... 
I cannot cite the name of the device because I do not remember, but I pilot tested a nighttime monitoring device that monitored the amplitude of muscle contraction of the masseter (jaw clenching muscle) as well as body position, movements, pulse, O2 saturations, and noise (snoring).  The goal was to correlate hypoxia with positioning, HR, clenching, snoring etc.  The application of the results, however, are still in development.  The investigators were a physician (D.O.) and orthodontist who work together on individuals with TMD.
I anticipate more of these will be available in the future.

