Q:

How to celebrate christmas with MS?

One week ago, I knew I have multiple sclerosis. My right eye is affected and I can not see well. This question is about what should I eat to overcome MS. 
I googled about beans and found controversy. I still don't know wither it is useful or harmful for me?
Also, Which one of these food is useful and which one is harmful? coriander -
latency -
Bee's honey -
Tahini - 
fried potatoes (fingers) - 
lentils - 
chickpeas - 
soybean - boiled liver of chicken - fried fish - boiled chicken without skin.
Christmas is coming and my family will celebrate by serving different types of food that contains fats, butter, meat, gateau and so on. 
Should I refuse to eat any of these? Or should I eat small amounts of meat and one piece of gateau? How do I know when I reach the maximum amount?

A:

In short: Changes in diet have not been proven to help mitigate MS, but there are special diet recommendations for patients on glucocorticoid therapy (solu-medrol belongs to this group).

There have been hypotheses on various diets increasing the risk of MS, however, there is no strong scientific evidence that would confirm this. At best, the results from controlled studies were inconsistent.
There was a large prospective study on two cohorts of women (92,422 with 14 year follow-up and 95,389 with 4 years follow-up), which has shown:

In these two large cohorts of women, we found no evidence that higher intake of saturated fat or lower intakes of polyunsaturated fat and fish omega-3 fatty acids were associated with an increased risk of MS. Intakes of dairy products, fish, red meats, poultry, and processed meats were also unrelated to risk of MS.
Because of the prospective design, recall or selection biases are unlikely in this study, and the high follow-up rates minimize the concern that differential follow-up rates have effected our results. The estimates of total fat and specific types of fat derived from the dietary questionnaires used in this study reasonably reflect long-term intakes of study subjects
(15–18). The fact that they have predicted risk of coronary heart disease in the NHS (31) further supports their validity.

However, many doctors do recommend a special diet when on glucocorticoid  therapy. Influence on electrolyte and sugar metabolism has been established with these medicines, as well as increased energy intake. The recommended diet is usually low in calories, fat and simple carbohydrates (no sugar I'm afraid or as little as possible), rich in protein; also low sodium and foods rich in potassium, calcium and vitamin D are recommended.
These nutritional strategies serve to prevent or mitigate potential metabolic side effects of corticosteroids. That being said, it is still a point of debate whether these are applied only in chronic systemic application of glucocorticoids or should they also be included in pulse therapy (short-term, high doses, the sort that you described).
Ultimately, the recommendations on diet should come from your doctor, and you should ask as many questions as you wish. Sometimes this sort of news comes as a bit of a shock, and it is good to have a family member with you and to write down the recommendations - when there is a lot to process it is easy to forget a crucial piece of information. Whatever you do, make sure to take your therapy as prescribed, as with corticosteroids, depending on how long you take them, it might be dangerous to abruptly stop - your doctor will know if this applies to your case.

Ref:

Dietary Fat in Relation to Risk of Multiple Sclerosis among Two Large
Cohorts of Women
Glucocorticoid Therapy and Cushing Syndrome Treatment & Management
Effects of glucocorticoids on energy metabolism and food intake in humans

