Q:

Parkinson's Disease and Pesticides

Recently, one of my relatives, who is a farmer, got diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease. 
He is 45 years old and has no positive family history.
One of the doctor told us that the occurence of the disease could be explained by his daily exposure to pesticides while another one refuted this theory due to a lack of proper "evidence".
I am a little bit lost with these statements as several members of our family are still working as farmers and we are concerned about getting the disease too.
My question: is there any proven link between Parkinson's Disease and pesticide exposure?
Thank you in advance for your help.

A:

Yes (ish), this meta-analysis proved a strong correlation between exposure to pesticides and likelihood of developing Parkinson's. Note, there is no direct X level of exposure leads to Y likelihood, just a strong correlation.

"Although the risk of PD increased with increased duration of exposure
  to pesticides, no significant dose-response relation was established,
  and no specific type of pesticide was identified. Our findings suggest
  that exposure to pesticides may be a significant risk factor for
  developing PD"
A meta-analysis of Parkinson's disease and exposure to pesticides.
  Priyadarshi A, Khuder SA, Schaub EA, Shrivastava S. Neurotoxicology.
  2000 Aug;21(4):435-40.

A more recent meta-analysis reviewed the aforementioned meta-analysis and while criticising some of the limitations of the study (in particular the heterogeneity of the included trials) concluded:

The literature supports the hypothesis that exposure to pesticides or
  solvents is a risk factor for PD. Further prospective and high-quality
  case-control studies are required to substantiate a cause-effect
  relationship. The studies should also focus on specific chemical
  agents.
(Pezzoli G et al. Exposure to pesticides or solvents and risk of
  Parkinson disease. Neurology. 2013 May 28;80(22):2035-41. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e318294b3c8.) 

