Q:

Normal resting heart rate and how to measure it

There is somewhat conflicting information on what the "normal" resting heart rate should be. Some sites cite rates between 60 and 100 as being normal, with rates below 60 being defined as bradycardia, i.e. a "condition". However, most sites also mention that it's normal for athletic people to have heart rates as low as 40, and that people should try to keep it below 70:

Myth: A normal heart rate is 60-100 beats per minute?
That's the old standard. Many doctors think it should be lower. About 50-70 beats per minute is ideal, says Suzanne Steinbaum, MD, director of women's heart health at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Recent studies suggest a heart rate higher than 76 beats per minute when you're resting may be linked to a higher risk of heart attack.

This is rather conflicting, since 76 is at around 40% of the 60-100 range, implying it even gravitates to the "fitter" range? Is the "new standard" correct?
Furthermore, regarding RHR calculation, my fitness tracker calculates the RHR as the first heart rate after waking up, while still lying in bed (it tends to be slightly below 60 on average). But this is really my lowest rate during the day (sleeping excluded), and while sitting at my desk during the day (I am a programmer), it will stick around 70 bpm - I am obviously not as fit as I would want to be. Is the in-bed resting heart rate really the "correct" indicator of fitness?

A:

First thing in the morning before getting up is usually considered the gold standard for RHR and will produce your lowest reading during waking hours. That said, when you are at the doctor's office and they take your HR you'll likely read a bit higher, much like you would sitting at your desk.
Traditional ideal RHR ranges i.e. ones that tend higher assume the reading at your desk/doctor's office. The "new standard" takes into account people who use their Fitbit/smartphone app/whatnot wizmo gadget first thing in the morning before hopping out of bed and thus suggests a lower ideal.
I would not consider an RHR in the low to mid 40's a condition in highly trained individuals; even following entry level endurance training regiments non-smoking, healthy-eating types can easily dip into the low 50's, in my experience.
A RHR at or close to 100 definitely approaches risky territory for the average person but other risk factors (smoking, obesity, etc.) would likely present before RHR approaches those levels. When present in combination with these activities, therefore, such a high RHR would be considered "normal" but your doctor would tell you to quit smoking, eat healthier, and get more exercise rather than to bring your RHR down.

