Q:

Does 'Stockholm Syndrome' really exist?

Stockholm syndrome describes the 'irrational' bond between a captor and captives. It has been more than four decades since the name, coined by Nils Bejerot, was formally accepted into medical literature. 
However, not everybody accept the existence of Stockholm syndrome as a genuine disease entity. For instance, Professor Nadine Kaslow of Emory University argues that there is lack of evidence to support the existence of the syndrome, and she further adds that it exists mostly in the media; Dr Arthur Brand of Brand & Kelton-Brand argues that it is a sort of adaptive behaviour to the new environment; Professor Jon Allen of Baylor College of Medicine and his colleagues as well as Professor Judith Herman of Harvard University suggest it be a complex Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). 
Can someone shed light on whether there is fairly enough clinical evidence, referring to evidence based medicine, to support the existence of Stockholm syndrome? 

A:

Stockholm Syndrome does exist. It has an exceptionally high face validity. It does have this attribute due to many case reports available in the non-medical newspapers. You see a pattern, you have a desire to name it.
The trick of taxonomy is trying to explain this behaviour pattern, many psychological theories stand at the ready: 
Traumatic Entrapment, Appeasement and Complex Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder: Evolutionary Perspectives of Hostage Reactions, Domestic Abuse and the Stockholm Syndrome:

Evolutionary theory and cross-species comparisons are explored to shed new insights into behavioural responses to traumatic entrapment, examining their relationships to the Stockholm syndrome (a specific response to traumatic entrapment) and complex post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). […]
   The neurobiological basis of defensive behaviours underlying PTSD is explored with reference to the triune brain model. Victims of protracted traumatic entrapment under certain circumstances may display the Stockholm syndrome, which involves paradoxically positive relationships with their oppressors that may persist beyond release. Similar responses are observed in many mammalian species, especially primates. Ethological concepts including dominance hierarchies, reverted escape, de-escalation and conditional reconciliation appear relevant and are illustrated. These phenomena are commonly encountered in victims of severe abuse and understanding these concepts may assist clinical management. Appeasement is the mammalian defence most relevant to the survival challenge presented by traumatic entrapment and appears to be the foundation of complex PTSD. Evolutionary perspectives have considerable potential to bridge and integrate neurobiology and the social sciences with respect to traumatic stress responses.

To properly diagnose a new "syndrome" you need to measure "symptoms", and make comparisons to enable a differential diagnosis. One such scale applying the concept of "Stockholm Syndrome" to dating complications is presented here:

A scale for identifying "Stockholm syndrome" reactions in young dating women: factor structure, reliability, and validity:

But the whole process is hampered by the rarity in which subjects are scientifically examined compared to the media coverage if such a case is presumed to be present. That concept is now apparently highly attractive for lay persons to explain counter intuitive behaviour up to a point that Stockholm Syndrome now almost replaced the previously assumed intuitive behavioural response of intense hatred. That is the weakness expressed by different researchers in the question. Psychological and psychiatric symptoms, disorders and syndromes are highly influenced or even dependent on culture. (cf. DSM and homosexuality). At the moment the process of clearly defining Stockholm syndrome as a distinct category that is really sharply defined against alternatives and related concepts is not finished:

‘Stockholm syndrome’: psychiatric diagnosis or urban myth?
  The existing literature on the subject of ‘Stockholm syndrome’ is sparse; the majority of the literature is based on case reports with little reference to how ‘Stockholm syndrome’ was diagnosed and what, if any, is its significance in terms of management of victims. ‘Stockholm syndrome’ is rarely mentioned in peer-reviewed academic research.[…]
  In summary, a systematic literature review has identified large gaps in research into ‘Stockholm syndrome’. Existing literature does very little to support its existence yet case studies demonstrate a possible pattern in the behaviour and experiences of people labelled with it. We found similarities between widely reported cases studies into hostage ⁄ kidnap victims that could be used as the basis for diagnostic criteria. We also suggest that labelling the hostage victim with a psychiatric syndrome makes their story more readable and more likely to boost media circulation. The mystery of the origins of psychiatric illness holds society with fascination; psychiatry does not deal in absolute values and definitions, it is easy for the media to have free reign with medical terms, such as ‘Stockholm syndrome’ that have, as yet not received comprehensive assessment and validating criteria.

