Q:

How to avoid snoring?

If someone is suffering from snoring for around 5 years, are there some remedies to avoid or control snoring? Any help will be greatly appreciated.

A:

Remedies to control snoring:

Pillows. There is a pillow called the SONA pillow its FDA approved and is proven to work.

The study was performed to determine the ability of a new inclined
  pillow to treat snoring and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. The SONA
  Pillow is a triangular pillow with space to place your arm under the
  head while sleeping on the side.

From the WebMD article "7 Easy Fixes for Snoring":

Beware sprays and pills. They can not be all they said they would be or not be properly researched to be safe or work. 

Use caution before you self-treat with over-the-counter sprays and
  pills until you've checked with your doctor, says Sudhansu
  Chokroverty, MD, FRCP, FACP, program director for Clinical
  Neurophysiology and Sleep Medicine at JFK Medical Center in Edison,
  N.J. "Many stop-snoring aids are marketed without scientific studies
  to support their claims," says Chokroverty, who is also a neuroscience
  professor at Seton Hall University's School of Health and Medical
  Sciences.

More on pillows. Utilizing full body pillows can help. Also, don't sleep on back and elevating the head of the bed can help, but may cause neck pain. Taping tennis balls to the back of your pajamas to stop yourself from lyin on your back is said to work, as well. Another warning:

This may cause neck pain, however." If snoring continues regardless of
  the sleep position, obstructive sleep apnea may be a cause. "See a
  doctor in this case," Chokroverty says.

Keeping your nasal passage ways open and eliminating allergens. Change and clean bedding and remove dust and other allergy triggers. As for nasal passage ways:

If snoring starts in your nose, keeping nasal passages open may help.
  It allows air to move through slower, Slaughter says. "Imagine a
  narrow garden hose with water running through. The narrower the hose,
  the faster the water rushes through."
Your nasal passages work similarly. If your nose is clogged or
  narrowed due to a cold or other blockage, the fast-moving air is more
  likely to produce snoring.

Things to do to fix this are:

Hot showers before bed time
Netti pots
Nasal strips

NLM.NIH.GOV states simply. 

Lose weight if you are overweight. It may help, but thin people can
  snore, too. Cut down or avoid alcohol and other sedatives at bedtime
  Don't sleep flat on your back

Those can be included with some lifestyles changes mentioned by Mayo Clinic:

Quit smoking
Get enough sleep
Raise head of bed about 4 inches

Alternative treatments mentioned are playing certain musical instruments and singing which can improve muscle control and train muscles of the upper airway. 
Seeking a doctors care is very important as snoring can be a sign of sleep apnea which can be life threatening. The cause of snoring is important and can change treatment. Also, of note is that snoring can not be cured, only controlled. 
By remedies I assumed you meant things other than surgery, implants, CPAP and Radiofrequency tissue ablation. 

