Q:

Does gargling Hydrogen Peroxide or Listerine help combat cold/flu?

More specifically, does gargling help prevent sickness when a person feels the early-stages of being sick? (That slight feeling of rawness in one's throat, for example, or a light, abnormal fatigue). 
A friend of mine says that gargling during this stage has worked wonders to prevent oncoming sickness. The argument made is that one absorbs the offending bacteria/viruses via the respiratory tract—and gargling with an antiseptic kills off otherwise sickness-causing pathogens. For example, if wearing a mask helps prevent sickness by blocking pathogens from the throat, why wouldn't using an anti-septic on the throat directly similarly prevent sickness?
I think this is a biological oversimplification. I claim that, by the time a person feels any symptoms, said person is already sick and gargling won't help prevent further sickness.
This study claims that gargling with water as a preventative measure (i.e. - before feeling any rawness, irritation, inflammation, or fatigue) reduces the occurrence of respiratory tract infections. While I don't think it's quite relevant in this question, it's the most related thing I could find.

A somewhat tangential point: We both agree that, if there's some placebo effect going on that increases the chances of fast recovery after gargling, then gargle all day!

A:

If you feel a cold "coming on" then your body (immune system) is already fighting it.  
I was unable to find studies on gargling to prevent respiratory illness.
However the AAFP released guidelines and recommendations for the common cold that looks at many studies for evidence for 

Prevention
Symptom alleviation
Decreasing the length of illness symptoms

It discusses:

What things DO have evidence for being effective
What things have evidence suggesting they DON'T work
What things don't have enough evidence to say one way or the other

The AAFP is one of multiple physician academies; others may offer similar guidelines and recommendations as well that you could check out. 

