Q:

Covid-19 spike protein as vaccine?

The genome of Covid-19 was mapped in early Feb. The gene for a protein spike was used to produce these spike proteins. 3-D microscopy of this synthesized spike has been produced. Quoting McLellan from this article:

"the molecule looks really good; it's really well behaved; the
  structure kind of demonstrates that the molecule is stable in the
  correct confirmation that we were hoping for," McLellan said. "So now
  we and others will use the molecule that we created as a basis for
  vaccine antigen."

Also saying:

In theory, the spike protein itself "could be either the vaccine or
  variants of a vaccine," McLellan said. When you inject this
  spike-protein-based vaccine, "humans would make antibodies against the
  spike, and then if they were ever exposed to the live virus,"

The article goes on to say:

Their colleagues at the NIH will now inject these spike proteins into
  animals to see how well the proteins trigger antibody production.
  Still, McLellan thinks a vaccine is likely about 18 to 24 months away.
  That's "still quite fast compared to normal vaccine development, which
  might take like 10 years," he said.

My question is: Why not inject, or drink, these spike proteins for immunity to Covid-19? Why expect an 18-24 month wait? The anti-body production response should occur(and be detectable) in days?

A:

Vaccines need extensive testing before they can be used. There's essentially no medical intervention which requires more testing than vaccines, which are used in extremely large numbers of healthy patients.
Generally this involves basic research, animal testing, Phase I testing ("Is it safe in humans? At what dose?"), Phase II testing ("Is it effective? At what dose? Are there side effects?"), and Phase III testing ("Is it safe and effective across all different subpopulations?").
As just one example of what could potentially go wrong: many/most COVID-19 deaths involve cytokine storms which are, roughly, damaging inflammatory immune overreactions. Priming the immune system could potentially worsen them and increase deaths by strengthening the immune response. (It doesn't seem likely, but this is why we test.)

