Q:

What ingredients in this list are causing my hands to get warm? (improve circulation to my fingers)

EDIT: scroll down towards the bottom towards the bottom for my answer. Its thoracic outlet syndrome. If I do certain stretches it goes away. Its an issue related to my bad posture and nerves getting pinched (from sitting in front of a computer the whole day)
OLD
I have mild Raynauds, which means the tips of my fingers are usually the same temperature as the atmosphere of the room/outside. (unrelated: I don't have any autoimmune disease, but I think this is from typing my whole life)
Anyways, I started to notice that when I chew this gum called "NeuroGum" found on Amazon, my fingers warm up. I'm very curious, what ingredient(s) could be causing my hands (finger tips) to warm up. Here is the list of core ingredients, (copy+pasted from amazon)
Ingredients
Sorbitol, gum base, L-theanine, Natural Flavors (Vanilla and Mint), Natural caffeine, Calcium Stearate, Steviol Glycosides, Acesulfame K, Vitamin B6 (as Pyridoxine), Vitamin B12 (as Cyanocobalamin)
note:its "Vitamin B12 (as Methylcobalamin)" on my gum
The only other thing that has similar effects is alcohol. I've tried buying the (same form of) b12 and b6 and l-theanin supplements and trying those separately/individually. This has not shown any success, (although I'll keep trying)
EDIT:
one more ingredient that i've noticed ALWAYS makes my hands warm is melatonin, (sleeping aid). Specifically this brand of mouth dis-solvable ones.
"NATROL® MELATONIN ADVANCED SLEEP MAXIMUM STRENGTH 10 MG."
I've  also tried chewing caffeinated gum without any success

A:

EDIT: Its thoracic outlet syndrome. If I do certain stretches it goes away
Old:
So I looked into it, and I found those ingredients are actually good for "carpel tunnel" which has been found to be related to raynauds in some cases... this is essentially a pinched nerve due to bad posture (common in computer scientists). I don't think I have this in my hands, but probably in my shoulders or back (from hunching over a computer all day over years). So I started looking into youtube videos relating to this and got some suggestions for things to try. Luckily I have found that when I straighten my neck back (and decompress the right bone/nerve), I can feel the problem going away immediately. Its weird, I can't really explain it but I also notice an almost immediate difference in the way my hands feel.
Anyways, I'm going to a good chiropractor to investigate and hopefully correct this problem, I will update this thread later with any updates. We will see.
Also important to note I've never had it in my toes or anything.

