Q:

Why is some alcohol consumption healthier than no alcohol consumption?

All the time I see content online that says moderate alcohol consumption is good for you. Some even say it is better than no alcohol consumption. Other times there is conflicting information that says no alcohol consumption is better. I'm assuming there just isn't a consensus on it but, as a person who doesn't drink alcohol, I'm curious how drinking moderately could improve my health.

A:

While there is some evidence for what we call a J-shaped curve in the relationship between alcohol consumption and certain health outcomes, at best this evidence only suggests people who already drink modestly have better health outcomes than people who don't drink at all. There is no strong evidence that starting to drink a glass a day, if you do not drink already, would improve your health outcomes. There is an important point here about study design. Evidence for the J-shaped curve is generally observational, often retrospective, and can only tell you about an association between some variable and a disease outcome. It may be an important association, e.g., a valuable marker for risk of disease, but it doesn't tell you what happens if you change the variable. To know what happens when you change the variable, you typically want a randomized controlled trial. 
Abstaining from alcohol (vs. moderate consumption) is likely what we call a confounding variable. It is associated with the variable of interest (some health outcome, e.g., mortality), but it is not on the causal pathway. That is to say, people who don't drink at all may be more likely to be ill (or become ill), but they didn't get that way because they don't drink. This is well explored in this meta analysis. A key part here is that former drinkers who currently don't drink any alcohol appear to be the major driver of the higher risk of mortality for individuals who don't drink at all. This suggests earlier heavy drinking or illness that causes someone to stop drinking. 

