Q:

At what daily dose does daily aspirin use become dangerous for a long-term user?

Many people take 80-300mg a day of aspirin for cardiovascular reasons; while, from what I've seen online, arthritis patients take up to 3000mg a day (is this correct?). But what are the increased risks associated with such a high daily intake? At what daily dose does aspirin become dangerous?
I've found many accounts of acute poisoning, but no quantitative studies on the chronic effects over time, as a function of dosage -- it's surprisingly hard to find information on this (I've tried every keyword combination under the sun).

A:

Aspirin, just like all NDSAIDs, affects enzymes associated with pain transmission; they are COX-1 and COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-1 and 2). COX-1 helps protect the stomach and intestinal lining from the acids the stomach produces 1. Since NSAIDs inhibit the production of these enzymes, they also leave your stomach and intestinal lining somewhat unprotected from acids. This is what can cause damage from long-term use of NSAIDs. It's not so much that they burn a hole in your stomach, but that they reduce the protection offered by the COX-1 enzyme. Of course, the higher the dose, the greater the effect on these enzymes, and the longer NSAIDs are taken, the greater the gastrointestinal risk. Except for low-dose aspirin, NSAIDs should not be taken longer than necessary.__________1. https://www.rxlist.com/cox-2_inhibitors/drugs-condition.htm

A:

Aspirin is a platelet inhibitor.  As such it has a number of bleeding risks - including GI bleeding as described above. Risks also include increased bleeding risk from injury including cuts, bruising, or hitting your head and having a brain bleed. And actually, even without head trauma, an intracranial hemorrhage risk increases with the dose of aspirin. The same dose of aspirin is not safe for everyone.
This does NOT mean that aspirin is too risky to take for primary or secondary prevention of heart disease, ischemic stroke, etc - it means you need to have a discussion with your doctor on the risks and benefits of whether daily (or even as-needed) aspirin is right for your personal situation and if so, what dose.  And you/your doctor need to know what other medications you take daily and what others you might take when you need it - because some interact with aspirin.  Again you need a doctor to advise you on what daily dose is right for you.
Arthritis pain has many possible treatments. Your doctor can help develop a specialized treatment plan.

