Q:

Fasting blood glucose and Hemoglobin A1C not valid for athletes?

I've been a competing athlete, mostly in endurance sports for nearly 45 years now. As part of military and other physicals, I have had blood glucose levels come back several times with high levels, and follow up Fasting Glucose Tolerance Tests come back as negative. In one of my most recent blood panels (for a medical study group) came back with HbA1c levels that indicated I was prediabetic, but again, follow up studies were negative.
Recently I read a blog post discussing this study, which indicated that highly trained endurance athletes (In this case, a cohort of 47 professional and 72 elite male cyclists, compared to 58 sedentary donors) trended higher HbA1c levels than the sedentary group.
I have also read that many of the blood glucose levels were established using diabetic patients, so does that mean that the levels are not valid for me since I am a lifelong endurance athlete? Or is this something that I should just keep following up with potentially unnecessary tests?

A:

When you say

In one of my most recent blood panels (for a medical study group) came back with HbA1c levels that indicated I was prediabetic, but again, follow up studies were negative.

What was the HbA1C level, and what follow-up study was negative?
In the Lippi study, HbA1c values between sedentary individuals and professional cyclists were 5.2 +/- 0.3% versus 5.4 +/- 0.2% respectively. That's really fairly marginal. Normal levels are below 5.7 percent. 
HbA1C levels are indeed valid concerns for athletes, as valid as for anyone else. The risk of heart disease, however, is lower in this group in spite of the elevated A1C because of fitness levels.
Glucose molecules don't respect elite cyclists more than couch potatoes. End-organ damage (through glycosylation) is the primary concern here. Your kidneys and eyes (among other things) aren't helped by your exercise, but they are damaged by diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes Mayo Clinic 

A:

Yes, high blood sugar levels can cause damage in the body---but it is SUSTAINED high blood sugar levels that are dangerous. Here is another interesting article on A1c and athletes: http://fitafter40vancouver.blogspot.com/2010/12/hba1c-and-athletes.html
Athletes may have short bursts of higher glucose in their blood stream after exercise and not prolonged high levels.
I, too, am an endurance athlete (ultra-marathon runner) who tends to have borderline high A1c results. My last results was 5.7.

