Q:

Natural ways to quit smoking

I have been smoking for the past three years and I have decided to quit smoking cold turkey. It has been three days now!
I am used to smoking during breaks. The craving is the worst every time I even think about locking my computer screen. I have stopped taking breaks these days, but I can't work either. It is really disrupting things and I don't want to get back to smoking yet!
I don't want to go on gums or patches. Is there something else that I can try? I am hoping some breathing exercises could help. Someone suggested eating chocolate or bananas helps. YEating in general is helping - I feel if I smell things (like chocolate or banana or cookies or anything) then the craving subsides. I want to know more about healthy natural ways of staying clean.

A:

Natural Ways to quit Smoking

Candy and Gum. Sucking candy or chewing gum can occupy your mouth and time much the same as cigarettes. Even lollipops can help. 

The flavor of the gum keeps the mouth fresh, making smoking less
  attractive. The act of chewing relieves the desire for oral
  stimulation and keeps the mouth busy.
The cool, tingly feeling of menthol or mint makes a smoker's mouth
  feel fresh and clean, which tricks the brain into feeling less desire
  for that hot intake of smoke.

Avoid triggers. Things you did while smoking or stress and other behaviors that encourage smoking. They vary per person. They can even be drinks such as coffee, alcohol or tea. 
Deep Breathing. Some smokers while smoking inhaled deeply which promotes relaxation. Proper deep breathing as your stomach protrude on inhalation which allows the lungs to expand more and hold more air. Other breathing exercises. 
Exercise. 30 minutes a day can prove helpful. 

Decreases appetite, Eases nicotine withdrawal symptoms when you first
  quit smoking, Distracts you from thoughts of smoking, Improves your mood,
  Helps you cope with stress and feel more energetic

Others: Adequate Hydration, appropriate diet, adequate rest, etc. 

Additional Info:

The First 30 Days: Quit Smoking!
Quitting Smoking: Help for Cravings and Tough Situations

