Q:

How to test EMF interference in my bedroom for sleep impact?

I've been dealing with poor sleep for quite awhile (over a year) and one of my suspicions is EMF interference in my room.  I've tried unplugging everything at night, but didn't notice a significant difference, so I suspect it's coming from some other source, perhaps one I'm not aware of (e.g. the wifi router in the other room).
How should I go about testing my suspicion?
For example, is there a device you recommend that will give me useful readings?  If you had similar issues, was there a strategy / product / solution that worked well for you?
That's the kind of information I hoped to find here more than in electronics.se. I beg to differ only because while the title mentions electronics (tools), the overall context / concern / application is around health.
I spoke to a specialist in EMF health and asked which of the devices are more useful and tend to help most in detecting potential health issues. The specialist said the voltmeter was less useful than the Gaussmeter, and that some ranges of radio frequencies impact human biology more than others.

A:

Yes, you can measure that. You can consider using EMF Meter Tester (Electromagnetic Radiation Dosimeter) which can detect electromagnetic radiation around the place of interest. The cheapest one which you can get can measure frequency range between low frequency: 50Hz-400KHz and high frequency: 30MHz-2000MHz which should be enough. It can be used in home electrical equipment, measurement of electromagnetic radiation such as: mobile phone, smart devices, computers, televisions, copiers, fax machines, air conditioners and other power sources of test analysis.
I had similar issue where I had a lot of cables and power supplies next to my desk and I had slight headaches because of that. I've purchased EMF Meter (DT-1130, similar to NJ-1130) and it was showing very high reading around that area (up to 1m far away from the corner). So I think my multi socket extension was just faulty (or wrongly shielded) and the reading was perfectly fine (zero) when I've switched it off.
So basically you should test the electric field radiation and if your equipment like computer connect power ground loop well, it would lead electric field radiation to the ground, to shield it, then the test would fail. Besides, metal will shield the radiation.
Such EMF meters can be found on-line. For more details, refer to manual/instructions provided by manufacturer (e.g. EMF819SPEC, EMF-819) where it's stated:

Persons with electromagnetic implant (e.g. cardiac-pacemaker) are  subject to especial danger in some case.
Claims by some scientists that long term exposure to electromagnetic field may be the cause of childhood leukemia & other forms of cancer.
Complete answers to any of these and related questions are not currently available. At the present time the most common practice is
to avoid excess exposure over long period of time.
Complete answers to any of these and related ”Prudent Avoidance“ as stated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) USA is recommended.

Related studies:

Sleep EEG alterations: effects of different pulse-modulated radio frequency electromagnetic fields - SCHMID – 2011 – Journal of Sleep Research – Wiley Online Library

Consistent with previous findings, our results provide further evidence that pulse-modulated RF EMF alter brain physiology, although the time-course of the effect remains variable across studies.

Magda Havas, Ph.D., an eminent researcher in this domain, says:

Symptoms of electrohypersensitivity have been demonstrated at exposures that are a fraction of U.S. exposure guidelines, in part because the guidelines themselves only take into consideration a 30-minute exposure, not chronic exposures.
Symptoms people experience near cell phone antennas, within a 0.25 mile radius include: fatigue, headaches, difficulty concentrating, memory loss, irritability, dizziness, depression, visual disruptions, hearing disruptions and much more.

Source: New Report Recommends FCC Require Minimum 1,500 Feet Setbacks for Wireless Infrastructure near Schools [2010]

Related videos:

How to measure EMFs from your multi socket extension

Even something as seemingly harmless as a multi socket extension lead can give off electrical and magnetic radiation. The danger is that such electrical devices can be held in close proximity to your body over long periods of time and over many years.
Excessive fatigue, stomach complaints, irritability, sleep disturbances, headaches, visual problems, memory loss, dizziness, and cardiovascular disruptions are just some of the symptoms which have been linked to exposure to EMFs. The symptoms from long-term exposure can lead to syndromes such as tumors and cancer.

How to avoid EMF radiation risks from computers, microwaves, cell phones, and other household items

Measuring Magnetic Fields EMF Pollution Under High Voltage Power Line

