Q:

Is pasteurized or non-pasteurized milk healthier for an adult male in his early 40s?

Taste is irrelevant. Health effects is the more important consideration. Which is a healthier choice for an adult male in his early 40s? Pasteurized or non-pasteurized milk? How much should he drink if he is an office worker who does not work out a lot?

A:

Pasteurized milk is perfectly safe for people of all ages but raw milk may or may not be. According to the CDC:

Raw milk is milk from any animal that has not been pasteurized to kill
  harmful bacteria. Raw milk can carry harmful bacteria and other germs
  that can make you very sick or kill you. While it is possible to get
  foodborne illnesses from many different foods, raw milk is one of the
  riskiest of all.
Some people who chose raw milk thinking they would improve their
  health instead found themselves (or their loved ones) sick in a
  hospital for several weeks due to infections caused by germs in raw
  milk. Getting sick from raw milk can mean many days of diarrhea,
  stomach cramping, and vomiting. Some people who drank raw milk have
  developed severe or even life-threatening diseases, including
  Guillain-Barré syndrome, which can cause paralysis, and hemolytic
  uremic syndrome, which can result in kidney failure, stroke, and even
  death.

Age is largely irrelevant unless you're very old or very young. On this subject the CDC has this to say:

The risk of getting sick from drinking contaminated raw milk is
  greater for infants and young children, older adults, pregnant women,
  and people with weakened immune systems, such as people with cancer,
  an organ transplant, or HIV, than it is for healthy older children and
  adults. But healthy people of any age can get very sick or even die if
  they drink raw milk contaminated with harmful germs.

As for how much to drink, there's no right or wrong answer for that. Drink as much as you like but keep in mind that whole milk is fairly high in calories.
https://www.cdc.gov/foodsafety/rawmilk/raw-milk-questions-and-answers.html

