Q:

What oxygen saturation level causes fainting?

I am talking about breath hold induced hypoxic state. Basically at what point during such an exercise would you expect the risk of fainting to be significant or can it happen at any saturation level?
Can I assume, that at 50% the danger of fainting is very high, like 90% and at 70% saturation it is extremely low?
Is it possible to train to be able to withstand lower saturation levels and not faint? For example would an experienced breath holder be able to not faint at 40% saturation? 
And finally, if you regularly do breath holding exercises, would you expect your red blood cell count to rise, similar to altitude exposure?

A:

I think it's hard to say because there seems to be substantial variability. The lowest figure I've heard was 30%, but it's from an anonymous report quoted in The Guardian:

An anaesthetist at a London hospital, who spoke anonymously, recalled one patient who attended A&E saying she felt cold. “When we put the stats probe on her, her saturation was 30% on air,” he said. “We obviously thought that was wrong, as usually patients are likely to have hypoxic cardiac arrests.” But when a blood sample was taken, her blood was very dark and had oxygen levels equivalent to those seen in people acclimatised to high altitudes. The patient was placed on a ventilator and survived for about a week before dying. “I have had a few patients like this,” the doctor said. “Sadly, their outcomes tend to be bad in my experience.”

The same article says:

Typically patients would lose consciousness below an oxygen saturation of 75%.

But I'm having a hard time finding a paper or textbook to back up this specific number.
Somewhat easier to find is data on oxygen saturation for patients whose life support has been withdrawn. (But these were unconscious already.)

It was observed that 0/82 patients had saturations of less than 40% for more than 3 min prior to cardiac arrest and 74/82 for more than 2 min.

Somewhat related: in patients predisposed to unexplained syncope,
absolute frontal cerebral tissue oxygen saturation (SctO2) during the
head-up tilt test was a good indicator: "patients faint when SctO2 falls below 60%", but this doesn't correlate at all with peripheral saturation (SpO2) in such patients, which remained constant.

