Q:

Can common cold really be lethal?

In the news reports after the murderer of John Allen Chau on the Andaman Islands, I have several times read that common cold could kill this tribe, for example in this AFP-report:
Fears that 21st century diseases as mild as the common cold could kill off the tribe
Is this really true?
My understanding of common cold is that there is basically an infinite number of different diseases (that is, different versions of bacterias or viruses) that is called common cold and after each cold you have you become immune to that specific pathogen but remain non-immune to all others that you haven't contracted. Obviously, most occurrences of common cold is not deadly although, if my understanding is correct, you are as non-immune to them as this tribe. So, is this claim that common cold could kill these people really true?
(Yes, the news reports also mentions measles and flu, but for these diseases there are vaccins you could offer this tribe)

A:

It is extremely unlikely that common cold as such would kill you, but the complications could.
The definition of a common cold is a viral infection of the nose and throat as reflected from its Latin names nasopharyngitis or rhinopharyngitis.
It is usually pneumonia as a complication of common cold (or flu or measles...) that can be deadly. A young student recently died in the US from pneumonia as a complication of common cold caused by Adenovirus (S Daily News).
The risk factors for common cold complications can include impaired immunity (hereditary or acquired), anatomical abnormalities of the respiratory system, co-existent lung or other disease and old age.
EDIT:
To answer "I have several times read that common cold could kill this tribe": The article does not claim that common cold can kill them, but they believe it could kill them:

Fears that 21st century diseases as mild as the common cold could kill off the tribe, or that experiencing electricity and the internet
  would devastate their lifestyle, has left them in a guarded bubble...

A:

Adding to Jan's answer, I found this, which was just published today. Emphasis is mine.
https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/the-american-killed-by-asian-islanders-hoped-to-save-their-souls/

Last to succumb were the Jarawa, who live in dense forests on the
  western edge of South and Middle Andaman Islands and, until 1998, were
  defending their territory with their lives. They killed settlers who
  ventured into their territory to fish or hunt game, and got killed in
  return. That year however, they succumbed to decades of pacification
  efforts originally developed by Maurice V. Portman, a colonial
  administrator. Boatloads of Indian officials and anthropologists would
  land on Jarawa beaches, leave gifts of bananas, red cloth and other
  goodies from civilization, and retreat. The Jarawa were eventually
  seduced into laying down their arms and interacting with settlers in
  peace. Almost instantly, they were beset by epidemics of pneumonia,
  mumps, measles and other diseases; even the common cold seemed to be
  lethal to them. No one knows how many died.

So there seems to be evidence that contact with long-isolated tribes can be lethal to them via the common cold.

