Q:

If I get COVID-19, can I still drink coffee?

In this link
Mentions

Take these steps to monitor your health while you stay home and practice social distancing:
Stay home, except to get medical care. Get rest and drink plenty of fluids.

...

Get rest and drink plenty of water or clear liquids. Avoid alcohol or drinks with caffeine, such as sodas, tea, and coffee.

...
Why?
Why to avoid coffee?
And what would happen if I drink coffee?
What's the worst thing that could happen?

A:

At the very least, coffee (caffeine actually) can can have a complex interaction with pain medication.
Caffeine can actually enhance the pain-relief effects of some medications, like aspirin, which is why it's included in some "combo" OTC painkillers in some countries. (But if you take these regularly and drink caffeinated drinks too, you may well exceed the daily RDA for caffeine, 400mg/day according to the FDA.)
However:

Oddly enough, what makes caffeine effective in pain relief can also cause headaches.
Since caffeine narrows the blood vessels that surround your brain, when you stop taking it they expand again, and that can cause pain.

I've also heard that if you don't take any pain meds, coffee will usually enhance your feeling of pain, but I can't find any (reliable) sources to back this up, even though in some circles it is recommended you don't drink caffeinated drinks when you have some (painful) medical (or quasi-medical e.g. tattoo, piercing, laser hair removal) procedures scheduled. YMMV. (Actually a 2018 paper found that habitual coffee drinkers have decreased sensitivity to pain.)
There are probably more aspects to consider including rigors and diuresis/sweating, both of which are probably modulated by caffeine.
WebMD says (in an MD-reviewed article):

These drinks won’t help you get over your cold or flu, and some could do more harm than good. [...]

Coffee. If you’re going to sip a hot drink, might as well get your daily dose of caffeine in it, right? Wrong. Try to stick with water and nutrient-rich soups.

But rather disappointing they don't offer any reasons why coffee should be avoided in this case, except that it is inferior to "nutrient-rich soups". But this seems hardly a flu-specific argument, i.e. you can't expect your diet to be just coffee anyway.
The CDC flu [patient] guide makes a similar recommendation:

If the sick person is not eating well, encourage
them to drink liquids. Avoid alcohol or drinks
with caffeine in them such as colas, tea, and
coffee.

While apparently no reason whatsoever for avoiding coffee is given in there, this is put under the "Tips to prevent dehydration" heading, so it's probably due to sweating/diuresis being enhanced by caffeine. This seems to be a really controversial topic, e.g. a Time mag article cites some experts saying otherwise, so it's probably better left for a separate question.

It’s true that caffeine is a mild diuretic, which means that it causes your kidneys to flush extra sodium and water from the body through urine. If you’re peeing frequently, and thus losing lots of liquid, it’s logical to think you could become dehydrated — but it actually doesn’t work that way, explains Dr. Daniel Vigil, an associate clinical professor of family medicine at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California Los Angeles.
“When you drink a cup of coffee or you drink a glass of iced tea, you are necessarily taking in a volume of fluid along with that dose of [caffeine],” Vigil says. Even though caffeine is a mild diuretic, Vigil says, you won’t lose more fluid through urine than you take in by drinking a caffeinated beverage. Your body is able to absorb as much fluid as it needs and expel the rest, he says.

Some studies seem to back up this latter view, but they involve healthy individuals.

