Q:

Why is this cancer biomarker not used clinically?

I am a biologist and I conducted a study on cell lines, studying markers of resistance for various anticancer molecules, cytotoxic and targeted. I get the gene SLFN11 as a clear biomarker of sensitivity/resistance across several cell types and molecules. I noticed that the literature is full of evidence that the expression of this gene is associated with survival and response. E.g.,

The role of Schlafen 11 (SLFN11) as a predictive biomarker for targeting the DNA damage response

A wake-up call for cancer DNA damage: the role of Schlafen 11 (SLFN11) across multiple cancers

The first evidence for SLFN11 expression as an independent prognostic factor for patients with esophageal cancer after chemoradiotherapy

So, why is it not used in clinical practice? It seems to be relevant for many cancer types, including NSCLC, breast, ovarian.

A:

Here are some general ideas regarding factors affecting implementation of biomarkers into a clinical setting.

Biomarker performance

biomarkers are often discovered with specific experimental designs, where the prevalence of disease is completely different from the actual prevalence, leading to overestimations of e.g. the positive predictive value or accuracy in the actual population
a biomarker identified in a single study with very sensitive techniques (e.g., mass spectrometry) may not be robust or replicable
performance must be evaluated in comparison to other biomarkers (see costs)

Technical implementation

the identification of biomarkers is often made with techniques that are not usable as is in a clinical setting (full sequencing, mass spectrometry, ...), therefore they are often brought to other types of platforms, which is a technical challenge but also may not support the initial findings
is associated with additional costs
the test matrix (type of sample in which the biomarker can be identified) must be available (i.e., if tumor excision is required to run the test immunohistochemistry or other tests with validated prognostic value will likely be performed anyway)

Cost/risk/benefit

must consider plausible scenarios of sampling, analysis and subsequent consequences
must provide an advantage in the above compared to existing biomarkers

Actual need

biomarker in comparison to other established predictors
relationship between the biomarker and the treatment approach/outcome
proportion of cases which would benefit from this additional biomarker

Legal considerations

patents (existing ones or lengthy procedure to obtain patent rights)

In the case of SLFN11 I would think that the implementation is not very difficult but that the benefits need to be demonstrated for each cancer type on a case-by-case basis and in comparison to the current standards for prognostic grading of these types of neoplasias. The review publications you linked suggest that cancers of a single type may express SLFN11 to different degrees, which will predict the efficacy of DNA-damaging agents in the treatment of those cancers.
Here are a few points one would need to evaluate for each cancer type:

Are DNA-damaging agents typically used (or sufficiently promising) to treat such cancers?
If yes,

does the rate of non-responsive neoplasias warrant further investigations into SLFN11 or is it very low?
are there alternatives to DDAs for treatment and would a SLFN11 test justify one of those alternatives with respect to benefit/risks?
will follow-up be performed anyway and is it performant at detecting non-responders?
where (chronologically) should SLFN11 testing be implemented into the standard procedure, since SLFN11 expression may vary with time and depending on previous treatments?

So the answer to your question likely requires a lot of experts of different fields to work together and that takes a lot of time...

