Q:

Which DIY mask is most effective?

There have been a number of do-it-yourself (DIY) mask designs released and tested by both universities and other institutions on account of world wide Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) shortages. Some were designed at the time of the SARS epidemic, and use double-folded kitchen paper towels with tissue.
Even though double tea towel masks are more effective in reducing viral exposure, it's difficult to breathe with it on.
What design has been tested to provide relatively good protection while being comfortable to wear and breathe while wearing them? And it needs to use readily available materials throughout the world.

A:

DIY Designs - most do not carry efficacy data claims
Note that many of these are only respiratory protection designs. You also need to protect your eyes in a high risk situation eg. looking after an infected relative.  Get protective goggles or your own glasses and attach a plastic shield eg. plastic pamphlet holder to the glasses for a full face shield.
Combined mask with face shield
University of Hong Kong-Shenzen Paper Towel Mask

Claims 90% filter protection of a surgical mask

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNjpH5lBZ8w
Masks only
Freesewing sew your own mask from cotton T-shirt etc
A4 PDF Pattern
CDC letter - simple mask (uses heavyweight T shirt material)
CDC
Instructables Cloth Masks patterns

as with all cloth based, wash in hot water to pre-shrink

Instructables
Copper 3D design using PLA 3-D printer

seems to need their special filter but perhaps use HEPA material?

3d printed masks unsafe poor fit or build up of CO2
Instructions
Face shield only

Prusa Printers RC2
Budmen 3D Printed Face Sheild V2
Laser Cut Shield - University of Auckland

Field Respirators
First industrialized field 3D printed emergency respiration device to support hospitals and ICUs. 
Door Handle Opener

Hands free Materialise Door handle Opener

More Reading
https://smartairfilters.com/en/blog/best-materials-make-diy-face-mask-virus/

