Q:

Taking pills A + B individually instead of 1 cold medication that has A + B + C + D, bad idea?

When you have cold symptoms and go the pharmacy, you have two categories of choices:

Individual over-the-counter medications to treat specific symptoms, such as:

Pain reliever/fever reducer (example: Acetaminophen 325 mg)
Nasal decongestant (example: Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg)
Cough suppressant (example: Dextromethorphan HBr 15 mg)
Expectorant (example: Guaifenesin 100 mg)

"Cocktail" (...correct terminology?) drugs, such as:

Tylenol cold + flu severe (Acetaminophen 325 mg, Dextromethorphan HBr 10 mg, Guaifenesin 200 mg, Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg)
TopCare cold multi-symptom (Acetaminophen 325 mg, Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg, Dextromethorphan HBr 10 mg)

My understanding is, if you only have, say, only 2 cold symptoms, it's better (or at least, not worse) to simply take the individual medications that treat the symptoms separately rather than some "combination" drug that also treats other symptoms you might not have.
At best, that would seem like a waste of the drug, and at worse, it might have side effects.
To be 100% crystal clear, I'm assuming a reasonably intelligent layperson here who pays attention to the active ingredients and the dosages and who doesn't blindly mix and match. For example:

I'm NOT asking about mixing e.g. Topcare Acetaminophen + Tylenol Cold, which would double-dose the acetaminophen and potentially cause liver damage. I'm assuming no overlap of active ingredients.  
I'm NOT asking about mixing 4 drugs at 2x the dosages that they would be found in a combination drug. I'm assuming the dosages are close to what they would be in the combination drugs.
I'm NOT asking about mixing Ibuprofen + Acetaminophen, or Ibuprofen + Dextromethorphan HBr for that matter. Again, this is because I'm assuming the combinations taken are already obviously found in existing OTC drugs on the shelf at similar dosages, and in this example they're not.

Given these, am I correct that it's better (or not worse) to treat the individual symptoms here, or is it worse? For example, might I overdose on the inactive ingredients, or might they interact dangerously?

A:

This is my personal preference, and I have asked both doctors and pharmacists about it. They all agree

If you are able to remember the names of the different ingredients, choose according to your symptoms, and manage different times frames (every 4 hrs for one; every 6 hrs for another) then taking individual ingredients is better.

Why is it better? You won't be taking something you don't need, or more of something than you need. The risk is that you will mix things or take too much (you've dismissed these as not a worry) or that it will be too much hassle, while you're sick, to figure out what to take. People like the idea of "take this, you'll feel better" without a lot of thinking. 
I react poorly to antihistamines, so I take separate ingredients to give me control. This is now reasonably difficult, since buying decongestants without added ingredients keeps getting harder and harder. That's why I've asked doctors and pharmacists about my approach. Should I just give up and buy decongestants with acetaminophen in them already? But they all tell me I am actually doing it right, with the proviso that you have to be prepared to put in the mental effort to get all the doses right.

