Q:

What are ASDH and AS in the context of "cause of death"?

I'm not sure this is technically the correct place to ask this question, but I know I need medical expertise so hear I am. I have been researching my family genealogy recently and, of special interest to me is their causes of death. I have been documenting all of the ones I have found. The one for which I am asking help is that of my great grandfather Philip Terrance Doherty. I have no difficulty reading most of the death certificate, and I can easily Google the conditions to find out what they are, but there is one small part that I believe I may be misreading. To me, it looks like "ASDH and serialized A. S." But I am not having luck here.
When I look up "ASDH", I get "Acute SubDural Hematoma", which I think makes sense. I mean, he had Chronic Brain Disease and Parkinson's Disease, so why not throw in a blood clot in the brain? When I put in "A. S. medical condition", I get Ankylosing Spondylitis, which also seems like a neurological condition, so that seems to fit as well. However, what does not fit is "serialized". When I put in "serialized A. S." and "serialized A. S. medical condition" it brings up computer coding pages.
So, my question is, what is written? And I know this may seem like more of a handwriting reading question, but I am sure someone with the proper medical knowledge will be able to read it instantly. Thank you so much for your help, and here is the picture, I am referring to the middle line in the "Other Significant Conditions" box:

A:

Several folks working together (Chris Rogers,  agoodnurse, Carey Gregory) come to a consensus about this certificate as follows.
CVA is virtually certain to be "Cerebrovascular Accident," which is an (acute) stroke.
The term “ASDH” is likely a transposition of the last two letters of “ASHD,” and thus means "Atherosclerotic Heart Disease”.
Bad handwriting makes "generalized" look like "serialized," which can be seen by blowing up the image and inspecting with a magnifier.  A photo of the blown up image (courtesy of Carey Gregory) is here.
enter link description here
AS is a recognized as abbreviation for "Atherosclerosis."
Thus, the whole phrase on the second line of the “Other Significant Conditions” box would be “Atherosclerotic Heart Disease with generalized Atherosclerosis.”
The entire sequence of events appears to be “Acute Congestive Heart Failure” for a few hours and pneumonia for one day, with an acute stroke (CVA or cerebrovascular accident) leading up to the pneumonia and congestive heart failure.  These events occurred in a person who had, for years, Parkinson’s Disease, atherosclerotic heart disease with generalized atherosclerosis, and chronic brain disease.

