Q:

Are water only fasts healthy? Can they cause headaches or other medical problems?

I have been using the below fasting protocol that I'd like to use for intermittent fasting -
Fast duration - Sunday night (10-11pm) to Tuesday morning (4:30am)
Consumed during fast - Only water (2-4L) and black sugarless tea/coffee (2-3 cups). Absolutely no other foods or beverages (no additional micro/macro nutrients) is taken during the fast duration.
Questions -

Is this fasting protocol healthy? Any medical studies/literature explaining why it would be health/unhealthy?
If the answer to #2 is negative, then wouldn't intermittent fasting in a paleo type of diet context be unhealthy as well? My understanding is that it'll involve similar type of fasting protocol but on alternate days.

A:

You have to be sensible, losing weight is simple thermodynamics. If you consume less calories than you need, you will lose weight. Examine.com says it best:

What should I eat for weight loss?
Eat less. Different diets can make this easier, so pick whichever one
best fits your lifestyle. Ultimately, you need to reduce your caloric
intake.
Examine.com

Since prolonged fasting might increase heat expenditure, diets that manipulate fasting (Intermittent Fasting, Alternate Day Fasting) may have some benefits on the “calories out” side of things. Yet, even here, weight lost is mostly due to the fact that you control eating: It is much harder to overeat in 8 hours than in 16.
A good way to check that you aren't underfeeding yourself is to count calories and sum up per-week what you have eaten vs what your TDEE says you need. Pair that with your personal data for weight delta over the week and you can adjust your calorie intake appropriately.
Provided you are meeting your calorie intake sufficiently prior to the fast there is no reason why you would run into any issues during because you body has the energy it needs to get through.
The main benefit of your diet choice is most likely psychological, as you have picked those times because you believe/understand its easiest to fast then for you.
In summary,
Answers:

Provided you have a good grasp of your personal macro-nutritional and calorie needs, yes.
The “paleo diet” (hunter-gatherer diet) is high in fats, high in proteins, and low in carbohydrates, its a means to assist weight loss through low carbohydrate intake, see answer to question 1.

