Q:

Can Vitamin C and E supplements cure or manage Preeclampsia resulting from oxidative stress?

According to Judith E. Brown's fifth edition of the "Nutrition Through Life Cycle" textbook, 
"Oxidative stress and lack of anitoxidant defences appear to play key roles in the development of Preeclampsia in pregnant women". 
At that, can antioxidants like Vitamin C(fruits or supplements) and Vitamin E be an effective cure to eliminate or manage Preeclampsia in the sense of reducing oxidative stress and reducing risk of preeclampsia?

A:

No. There have been several trials testing this and they have not shown benefit.
One example of the conclusion from such a trial:

Supplementation with vitamins C and E during pregnancy does not reduce the risk
  of preeclampsia in nulliparous women, the risk of intrauterine growth restriction, or
  the risk of death or other serious outcomes in their infants. 

Rumbold, A. R., Crowther, C. A., Haslam, R. R., Dekker, G. A., & Robinson, J. S. (2006). Vitamins C and E and the risks of preeclampsia and perinatal complications. New England Journal of Medicine, 354(17), 1796-1806.
And a summary of 15 trials from the WHO, with a strong "not recommended" guidance:

Evidence related to the differential effects of
  antioxidants in the prevention of pre-eclampsia
  and its complications was extracted from a
  Cochrane systematic review of 15 RCTs involving
  a total of 22 359 women (14). Most of the trials
  had compared one or more vitamins, particularly
  combined vitamins C and E regimens, with
  placebo. When antioxidants were compared with
  placebo, there were no statistically significant
  differences in the critical (and proxy) maternal
  outcomes of pre-eclampsia
No statistical
  differences were observed for any of the infantrelated critical (and proxy) outcomes addressed
  in the trials
Individual or combined vitamin C and vitamin
  E supplementation during pregnancy is not
  recommended to prevent the development of
  pre-eclampsia and its complications.
  •    (High-quality evidence.
  Strong recommendation.)

World Health Organization. (2011). WHO recommendations for prevention and treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia.

