Q:

How does amiloride increase calcium reabsorption in the kidneys?

Amiloride is a potassium-sparing diuretic that acts on the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts to inhibit ENaC channels. I found studies that show that this drug increases calcium reabsorption dependent on luminal pH, but what is the mechanism behind this effect?

A:

Regarding calcium transport in the kidney:

In contrast with the proximal tubule and the thick ascending limb of
  the loop of Henle, the distal tubule reabsorbs calcium exclusively via
  the transcellular route.

See also: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4491294/
Also, calcium availability in blood (and hence for filtration in the kidney) is dependent on pH - higher pH will increase binding of calcium to albumine (this is happens e. g.  in plasmapheresis when EDTA is added to your blood to prevent coagulation outside of your body); see also: https://www.kidney-international.org/article/S0085-2538(15)57007-5/pdf

In the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and connecting tubule (CNT),
  acidosis effects the expression of TRPV5, but also the luminal H+
  concentration has direct effects on TRPV5 activity (H+ inhibits). 
Consequently, bicarbonaturia, by increasing luminal pH increases TRPV5
  activity. There is debate as to whether there is significant calcium
  reabsorption from the collecting duct. However, α intercalated cells
  in this segment, when unable to secrete protons such as with dRTA,
  will fail to acidify the urine altering the solubility of calcium
  salts. In the proximal tubule, a high pH inhibits citrate reabsorption
  (as observed in pRTA).
Patients with dRTA have long been appreciated to also have a disorder
  of sodium wasting.73 The molecular details of how the vacuolar
  H+-ATPase in the collecting duct contributes to sodium reabsorption
  were recently described. In combination with pendrin and Slc4A8, the
  H+-ATPase mediates thiazide-sensitive sodium reabsorption through the
  β-intercalated cell under situations of volume depletion.72,88,89
  Mutations in either disease causing subunits would therefore prevent
  transcellular sodium reabsorption via this mechanism. Consequently,
  patients with mutations in the H+-ATPase would be prone to volume
  contraction and, as has been suggested for mutations in NCC, have
  increased proximal tubular sodium and consequently calcium
  reabsorption. Thus, if volume contracted, these patients would further
  attenuate hypercalciuria induced by metabolic acidosis. However, it
  should also be noted that volume contraction could exacerbate
  nephrocalcinosis and nephrolithiasis by decreasing urinary flow
  resulting in increased urine supersaturation of calcium, phosphate, or
  oxalate.

Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5118493/

