Q:

Why is erythromycin eye ointment required for newborns even if the mother doesn't have any STDs?

Erythromycin eye ointment is used on newborns shortly after birth to prevent chlamydial or gonorrheal infection in the baby's eyes.
In many states, this is required by law regardless of whether the mother actually has chlamydia or gonorrhea or not.  What is the logic here?  Does this law make sense medically?

A:

The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) continues to recommend prophylaxis for all infants:

If gonorrhea is prevalent in the region and prenatal treatment cannot be ensured, or where required by law, a prophylactic agent of 0.5% erythromycin ointment should be instilled into the eyes of all newborn infants (including those born by cesarean delivery) to prevent sight-threatening gonococcal ophthalmia.

Likewise, the United States Preventative Services Taskforce recommends routine prophylaxis as a Grade A recommendation:

Benefits of Preventive Medication
The USPSTF found convincing evidence that ocular prophylaxis of newborns with 0.5% erythromycin ophthalmic ointment can prevent gonococcal ophthalmia neonatorum.
Harms of Preventive Medication
The USPSTF found convincing evidence that ocular prophylaxis of newborns with 0.5% erythromycin ophthalmic ointment is not associated with serious harms.

Thus, according to the US agency responsible for evidence-based medical guidelines, the benefits outweigh the risk. (As an aside, I take their recommendations very seriously, both for my own healthcare, and that of my patients.)
However, like you, the AAP questions the need for the legal requirement:

Because prophylaxis with topical antimicrobial agents is highly effective in preventing blindness from gonococcal neonatal ophthalmia, it has been mandated by law in many jurisdictions. ... The necessity for mandatory eye prophylaxis in this country has been questioned, primarily because rates of intrapartum exposure to gonorrhea have been greatly reduced by prenatal screening and treatment of maternal disease. ... The American Academy of Pediatrics supports reevaluation of the continued necessity of legislative mandates in the United States for universal neonatal eye prophylaxis, and advocates for legislation that allows adoption of alternative strategies...

See the full chapter for additional discussion.

