Q:

Aesthetics aside, is there a medical reason that acne should be treated?

There are obvious costmetic reasons to treat Acne.  
However, are there medical reasons for acne to be treated?
Possible disadvantages of treatment include harshness of chemicals, side effects of antibiotic use, side effects of Retin A, etc - depending on treatment regimen. 
What would be medical advantages?  Such as avoiding risk for infections, or other?

A:

What would be medical advantages? 

There are several problems with what you're asking. It has to do with how you're framing the issue. But rather than get into a more convoluted point, I'll just answer your question:

Reduced psychosocial well-being
Longer term scarring 

Maybe that matters to you, maybe it doesn't. For some people it can impact their life in a significant way, leading to depression, etc. Then again, the retinoid treatments for acne can also lead to depression or worse.
"Remaining a virgin at age 40" may not have an ICD-10 code, but it doesn't mean it's not a risk factor of acne worthy of attenuating.

Such as avoiding risk for infections, or other?

No, quite the opposite is possible:

https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamadermatology/fullarticle/398804
Antibiotic Treatment of Acne May Be Associated With Upper Respiratory
  Tract Infections
Objective  To determine if the long-term use of antibiotics for the treatment of acne results in an increase in either of 2 common
  infectious illnesses: upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) or
  urinary tract infections.
Design  Retrospective cohort study.
Setting  General Practice Research Database of the United Kingdom, London, England, from 1987 to 2002.
Patients  Patients with a diagnosis of acne.
Main Outcome Measure  The onset of either a URTI or a urinary tract infection.
Results  Of 118 496 individuals with acne (age range, 15-35 years) who were identified in the General Practice Research Database, 84 977
  (71.7%) received a topical or oral antibiotic (tetracyclines,
  erythromycin, or clindamycin) for treatment of their acne and 33 519
  (28.3%) did not. Within the first year of observation, 18 281 (15.4%)
  of the patients with acne had at least 1 URTI, and within that year,
  the odds of a URTI developing among those receiving antibiotic
  treatment were 2.15 (95% confidence interval, 2.05-2.23; P<.001) times
  greater than among those who were not receiving antibiotic treatment.
  Multiple additional analyses, which were conducted to show that this
  effect was not an artifact of increased health care–seeking behavior
  among our cohorts, included comparing the cohorts of patients with
  acne with a cohort of patients with hypertension and the likelihood of
  developing a urinary tract infection.
Conclusions  Patients with acne who were receiving antibiotic treatment for acne were more likely to develop a URTI than those with
  acne who were not receiving such treatment. The true clinical
  importance of our findings will require further investigation.

