Q:

What kind of inflammation is caused by diabetes?

Quote from the notice for diabetics about COVID:

Diabetes causes inflammation in the body and you have a harder time fighting off an infection like the virus that causes COVID-19

What does it mean "diabetes causes inflammation"? I know there are a lot of short-term problems like hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia and long-term complications diabetes may cause, like neuropathy, retinopathy, and a lot more over time, but it's first time I hear about inflammation caused by diabetes. Like what it is exactly, does it mean that all diabetics have some kind of constant inflammation in their body and that is aggravated when they get sick? Or they refer to one of those complications/problems as inflammation (which I think is not correct).

A:

As @anongoodnurse pointed out, a pre-inflammatory state is present before T2D develops. Most of the patients of Type 2 Diabetes mellitus are obese. They may have dyslipidemia wherein sub-acute chronic inflammation is common.
The most common and well studied pathway is Inflammasome/IL-1β signalling. Cells have cytosolic NOD-like receptors that recognize diverse molecules that are liberated or altered. They signal via a multiprotein complex called the Inflammasome. Excess free fatty acids within macrophages and β-cells can lead to Inflammasome activation which activates an enzyme (caspase-1) which cleaves precursor form of IL-1β to it's active form. IL-1β mediates the secretion of other pro-inflammatory cytokines from macrophages, islet cells and other cells.
This is just one mechanism through which inflammation can occur. Others include accumulation of DAG, phospholipids, ceramides, etc. which are toxic lipid metabolites that can attenuate signalling   through the insulin receptor and activate inflammatory pathway in the islets. Liver steatosis can also lead to inflammation and hepatocyte injury which can impair glucose homeostasis.
References:

Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of
Disease, 10e

Tsalamandris, S., Antonopoulos, A. S.,
Oikonomou, E., Papamikroulis, G. A.,
Vogiatzi, G., Papaioannou, S.,
Deftereos, S., & Tousoulis, D. (2019).
The Role of Inflammation in Diabetes:
Current Concepts and Future
Perspectives. European cardiology,
14(1), 50–59.
https://doi.org/10.15420/ecr.2018.33.1

Remmerie, A., & Scott, C. L. (2018).
Macrophages and lipid metabolism.
Cellular immunology, 330, 27–42.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cellimm.2018.01.020

