Q:

Will I lose weight following this diet?

I am 24 years old female. Height 5.3" and Weight 58kg. 
I want to reduce my weight especially belly and thigh fats. I have just changed my routine to make it possible but I am not sure this will work or not.
Here an overview of my day: I get up at 7.00 am in the morning and do some workout including rope skipping and some other exercises for 30 mn. Then I take a hard boiled egg. In the office, at 9.30 am I take a large cup of black coffee (without milk and sugar) with two hands full of nuts (cashew nuts, pistachio, walnut, and almond). During my break time, I take a bowl full of fruits (two peaches, two apples, 1 pear) at 4.00 pm I take another cup of black coffee. For dinner, I take half piece of roti (bread) with any vegetable or meat.
Is this routine healthy in losing weight and will this lead to weight loss? 

A:

The common thought here is to lose weight you need to have more calories going out than coming in (basically, just eat less).
Your TDEE (number of calories you should eat per day to stop any weight change is around the 1600 mark
Lets look at your diet, your exercise is not worth accounting for.
It looks a little like this:

A quick analysis says that if you follow that diet exactly and not pile on sauce onto your dinner then you will lose weight as your calories out > calories in.
HOWEVER You are cutting out protein and fats to lose weight which can work but is not optimal. Carbs, which make up most of your diet are not very "filling" 
It's well established that:

protein generally increases satiety to a greater extent than
  carbohydrate or fat and may facilitate a reduction in energy
  consumption - Protein, weight management, and satiety, Douglas
  Paddon-Jones, Eric Westman, Richard D Mattes, Robert R Wolfe, Arne
  Astrup, and Margriet Westerterp-Plantenga

So while your diet will work, you will probably feel more hungry than if you met your protein and fat intake and cut carbs.
Footnote: Be aware what you are losing weight to show. IF you have no defined muscle structure you will just end up looking frail/skinnyfat.

