Q:

Do UV-B emitting lamps for reptile pets produce vitamin-D in human skin?

There are those lamps like e.g. "ReptiGlow" for pet reptilians, to keep them healthy, the output being graded e.g. by habitat: jungle (trees somewhat reduce the UV that hits the animals), or desert (full sun exposure).
Alas, I have found nothing about the exact wavelengths those kind of lamps produce, and the exact wavelengths human skin needs to produce vitamin-D.
The example used, "ReptiGlow", claims to mimic the UV mix of the sun, with the same kind of UV-A, UV-B mix.
Can such reptilian lamps actually be used to effectively produce vitamin-D in humans, e.g. countering European Winter, without harmful side effects?
If generally so - how would one determine the needed exposure (lamp output, distance to skin, exposure time)?

A:

In short: UV bulbs for reptiles and tanning beds emit mainly UV-A, which does not promote vitamin D synthesis but can promote skin cancer.
UV light and vitamin D synthesis (Skin Cancer Foundation):

Our bodies manufacture vitamin D when the sun's ultraviolet B (UVB)
  rays interact with 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) present in the skin.
  However, we can produce only a limited amount of vitamin D from UVB.
  A few minutes at midday are sufficient for many Caucasians...After
  reaching the production limit, further exposure actually destroys the
  vitamin, decreasing vitamin D levels.

Wavelengths of various ReptiGlo bulbs range from 300-640 nm (only UV-A or both UV-A and UV-B), depending on the model; the bulbs have up to 40 Watts (Exo-terra.com).
Modern tanning devices provide mostly UV-A (315-400 nm); the power is 100-200 Watts (Wikipedia).
FDA.gov claims that both UV-A and UV-B rays causes DNA damage, which can lead to skin cancer and that all use of tanning beds increases the risk of skin cancer, from which one can conclude that the UV reptile bulbs could do the same.
According to Indoor Tanning (American Academy of Dermatology):

Exposure to UV radiation from indoor tanning devices is associated
with an increased risk of melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer,
including squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma.
Using indoor tanning beds before age 35 can increase your risk of melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer, by 59 percent.

