Q:

How can Stockholm be close to herd immunity without having overwhelmed the healthcare system?

According to several sources, models estimate 20% of people in Stockholm are already immune to COVID-19 (2014-04-22).  However, German virologists estimate (2020-04-19) that to reach herd immunity in Germany without overwhelming the healthcare system would take around a year.  Stockholm has not seen the overwhelming of the healthcare system that cities like Bergamo or New York City have seen.  How could Stockholm be already close to herd immunity without overwhelming the healthcare system, when the situation is so different in Germany (estimated to take a year, higher number of intensive care units per capita than most other countries), Bergamo or New York (overwhelmed healthcare system)?
See also: Coronavirus: Has Sweden got it right?, BBC News, 2020-04-25, which doesn't really answer this question specifically.

A:

The level at which herd immunity is achieved varies with the communicability of the disease. The standard rule of thumb is that the percentage of the population that has to be immune is pc = (1 - 1 / R0). The value of R0 for SARS-CoV-2 is not known precisely, but is thought to be between 1.4 and 3.9. This means that herd immunity would be achieved at somewhere between 29%-74% of the population. So we don't actually know if Stockholm is near herd immunity or not. In fact, if you read the details of the article you link to, Tegnell, the Swedish chief epidemiologist, says that herd immunity is achievable in a "few weeks time". So the statement that Stockholm is close may depend on what your your definition of close is.
The article you link to also points out that Swedens death toll is double that of nearby Denmark and Finland. The Swedish policy is controversial and other virologists and epidemiologists fear they could rapidly move into an NYC/Italy/Spain style outbreak.
It may also be worth noting that German has 8 times the population of Sweden, so they'd probably have to move towards herd immunity at a lower rate than Sweden to avoid overtaxing the medical system.

