Q:

How can I trust my doctor and what he said

I have been coughing for around 3 months now, with a feel of air flow on my throat. I went to my family doctor, who said it was reflux from my stomach that went out to my throat and made like red things on my throat that make me cough. I wasn't convinced so I went to another doctor who said the same and gave me Esomeparzol to reduce stomach acidity (Even I don't feel an acid taste at all), and that made me go to an Otolaryngologist who said that I have allergies in my throat due to my nose secretions and he did Nasopharyngolaryngoscopy to be sure of that.
I am not convinced. I am not seeking any medical advice here. I worry that I have a tumor in my lung that makes me cough (though no blood, or anything else other than the cough for 3 months now). I know my doctors are right. But how do I stop being nervous? How can I trust my doctor ?  

A:

It is true that a tumour in your lung can make you cough (I coughed uncontrollably day and night until mine went away) but a million much milder things can do that too. If you had a cancer growing in your lungs you would have symptoms other than just coughing. Your doctors would notice. 
If the "acid reflux" and the "allergies" treatments have not helped, it's good for you to continue to investigate so you can get some relief. It's not good for you to decide it's the worst possible thing, that will just upset you for no benefit. Keep communicating with your family doctor that you want to know what is causing the cough and you want to clear it up and get relief.
Sticking with one doctor and going from them to a specialist and then back again is probably the best way to build trust, compared to going to a series of different specialists who can argue with each other through you. If you think your family doctor would let you die from tumours rather than help you, you need a different family doctor. But if it's just a matter that you can't shake your fear, work with your doctor to get that settled.

