Q:

Is crunching sound in the neck normal?

Some people have a crunching (grating, cracking, popping) sound when they turn a head. Considering we're talking about long-term condition without any pain, is it considered a normal condition?

A:

You're asking about so called articular release. It is considered a normal condition.
From "Joint cracking and popping: understanding noises that accompany articular release." (2002):

The sound, or the noise,
  is what people notice in articular release; the subjective relief
  it provides is secondary. (...)
  The sound generated by joint manipulation has been classified
  variously throughout osteopathic medical literature, being
  referred to as an “articular crack,” “articular pop,” “clunk,”
  “crepitus,” “joint click,” “snap,” “synovial grind,” and “thud,”
  and it has been described as a “grating” sound in the general
  medical literature (Figure 3). The articular release may be accompanied
  by a loud audible release or a soft joint sound—but it can
  also be inaudible. (...) The articular crack occurs for patients in both healthy and diseased states. It can be heard during normal functioning.

About long-term, habitual cracking:

Is articular release necessary to maintain joint health? (...) A person who
  undergoes habitual cracking does so for the feeling of relief and
  greater motion in the involved joint. If one were to consider the
  anatomic and physiologic models solely, one could assume
  that maintaining motion throughout the joint could lower the
  likelihood of developing osteoarthritis. On the other hand, the
  excessive use of a joint could lead to laxity of the ligaments supporting
  the joint, causing hypermobility or introducing an
  unnecessary stress that could eventually cause dysfunction. 

There is nothing about the neck, but there is about knuckles, as researchers are generally more interested in investigating knuckle and hand cracking:

Swezey and Swezey studied the prevalence of knuckle
  cracking in geriatric men in comparison to 11-year-old children
  and found that their data failed to show that cracking leads to
  degenerative joint disease in the MCP joint in old age. The
  chief morbid consequence of habitual joint cracking appeared
  to be the annoyance inflicted on the casual observer.

If you're more interested in what exactly causes this strange sounds, I recommend reading "Real-Time Visualization of Joint Cavitation" (2015). There is a very interesting history section. But the final conclusion is:

Our data support the view that tribonucleation is the process which governs joint cracking. This process is characterized by rapid separation of surfaces with subsequent cavity formation, not bubble collapse as has been the prevailing viewpoint for more than a half century. 

