Q:

Is the washing hands in order to protect yourself from COVID-19 backed up by research?

I have been hearing a lot of people say that it is recommended to wash your hands thoroughly in order to maximise protection against COVID-19 infection. I also heard that the washing hands rumours are just a way to make people believe that they are protecting themselves and that the washing hands thing is actually not backed up by real data. 
Question: 

Is washing hands really that useful? And if yes, is there any data backed up to defend this?

The reason i'm asking this is because an expert in this field said that the "data is very week behind this" and "it's not going to have a big impact on preventing infection" (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E3URhJx0NSw) 43:32 and that the data behind the virus being infected through the eyes is very sparse (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E3URhJx0NSw) 44:00

A:

Here's an article that I found helpful, to understand why washing hands with soap is so helpful, and how it helps (Pall Thordarson is a professor of chemistry at the University of New South Wales, Sydney):

Why does soap work so well on the Sars-CoV-2, the coronavirus and
  indeed most viruses? The short story: because the virus is a
  self-assembled nanoparticle in which the weakest link is the lipid
  (fatty) bilayer. Soap dissolves the fat membrane and the virus falls
  apart like a house of cards and dies – or rather, we should say it
  becomes inactive as viruses aren’t really alive.
The slightly longer story is that most viruses consist of three key
  building blocks: ribonucleic acid (RNA), proteins and lipids. A
  virus-infected cell makes lots of these building blocks, which then
  spontaneously self-assemble to form the virus. Critically, there are
  no strong covalent bonds holding these units together, which means you
  do not necessarily need harsh chemicals to split those units apart.
  When an infected cell dies, all these new viruses escape and go on to
  infect other cells. Some end up also in the airways of lungs.
When you cough, or especially when you sneeze, tiny droplets from the
  airways can fly up to 10 metres. The larger ones are thought to be the
  main coronavirus carriers and they can go at least two metres.
These tiny droplets end on surfaces and often dry out quickly. But the
  viruses remain active. Human skin is an ideal surface for a virus. It
  is “organic” and the proteins and fatty acids in the dead cells on the
  surface interact with the virus.
When you touch, say, a steel surface with a virus particle on it, it
  will stick to your skin and hence get transferred on to your hands. If
  you then touch your face, especially your eyes, nostrils or mouth, you
  can get infected. And it turns out that most people touch their face
  once every two to five minutes.
Washing the virus off with water alone might work. But water is not
  good at competing with the strong, glue-like interactions between the
  skin and the virus. Water isn’t enough.
Soapy water is totally different. Soap contains fat-like substances
  known as amphiphiles, some of which are structurally very similar to
  the lipids in the virus membrane. The soap molecules “compete” with
  the lipids in the virus membrane. This is more or less how soap also
  removes normal dirt from the skin.
The soap not only loosens the “glue” between the virus and the skin
  but also the Velcro-like interactions that hold the proteins, lipids
  and RNA in the virus together.
Alcohol-based products, which pretty much includes all “disinfectant”
  products, contain a high-percentage alcohol solution (typically 60-80%
  ethanol) and kill viruses in a similar fashion. But soap is better
  because you only need a fairly small amount of soapy water, which,
  with rubbing, covers your entire hand easily. Whereas you need to
  literally soak the virus in ethanol for a brief moment, and wipes or
  rubbing a gel on the hands does not guarantee that you soak every
  corner of the skin on your hands effectively enough.
So, soap is the best, but do please use alcohol-based sanitiser when
  soap is not handy or practical.

A:

Yes, the virus can be made un-harmful by soap and water. From the Economist:

The outer proteins sit athwart a membrane provided by the cell in
  which the virion was created. This membrane, made of lipids, breaks up
  when it encounters soap and water, which is why hand-washing is such a
  valuable barrier to infection.

This should give you enough key terms to read further about why this is effective.

A:

There are obvious  sufficient  data  and enough evidence that all virus are transmitted by droplet infection (body contact) and shake hands. Washing hand makes  sense as the infection is happening mostly yourself if you have contact with your hands in your face, mouth, nose, eyes.
So don't shake hands, clean your hands by washing or desinfecting after touching the cars and bags in a supermarket or any other objects, as you can transport a virus with your hands in body openings - as everybody touches his face may be 100's of times a day unconsciously. 
https://www.healthline.com/health-news/how-to-not-touch-your-face
In normal times we can be overprotective to ourselves. "More dirt" could be an option or devise  in education, but not in times when schools and kinder gardens have to be closed because of an epidemia or a pandemia. 
https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/926373

