Q:

Link between shaving body hair and weaker scalp hair

I suppose this question can be addressed to both males and females, but it would be interesting to know if it varies between the two genders (hormones, etc).
I want to know if shaving body hair (chest, legs, armpit, etc...) or even facial hair (beard) has an impact on the hair in your scalp? Will it deplete the body of nutrients like keratin and vitamins that are needed in keeping a strong, healthy head of  hair? Will it accelerate existing hair loss resulting from androgenic alopecia (Male pattern baldness)?
Here is my hypothesis: 

Human hair needs nutrients from the blood to keep the follicle
  healthy. If you shave body hair it will obviously  grow back, but this requires
  nutrients. The same nutrients could have been used to go towards the
  scalp hair and keeping it healthy and strong. But instead, more of the
  body's resources are going towards other hairs and as a result will
  deplete the scalp from nutrients and cause weak limp hair. And if you
  are already predisposed to hair loss (via genetics), then this will
  result in an accelerated rate of hair fall.

I am curious to see if anyone has done any research or if there are any studies on this. Obviously there are many swimmers or cyclists who shave their entire bodies and still have luscious strong hair which can only attributed to 'good' genetics and healthy active lifestyles. If anyone has done any research that either supports or disproves my hypothesis, do not hesitate to leave a response!

A:

The hair structure of an adult is divided into three parts: shaft\fiber, root and bulb. Hair root is located inside hair follicles in epidermis, which itselff is growing a shaft. The shaft (what we usually call hair) consists basically of solid keratin and absent of DNA so it cannot be called "alive" in a rigorous sense (details).
Hair lifecycle consists of three stages: 

Anagen (1000 days), growth
Catagen (10 days),  transition
Telogen (100 days), new hair start to grow from the same folicule; old one goes out 

So in fact ~90% of hair is growing at at any given time and it does not depends on hair length until follicule is damaged (details). 
However hair grows affected by external factors like nutrition and ambient temperature, lower temperature more intensively hair grow. So the imaginary situation can happen when a extremely hairy person shaves her/his body hair, the thermoisolation worsens, then he\she experience intensified hair growth. 
In other words all above explanations and examples are of speculations as human body is an extremely complex system and effects of second and third order and their interactions may influence, feedback and amplify each other. In the end to regourosly answer your question there should be controlled experemint to be carried out on twins to exclude genetetic variations. I did not find such or similar experiment in literature.

