Q:

Can a tooth be saved if it was accidentally knocked out from its socket?

Due to trauma, e.g., from road accidents, sports, falls, etc a tooth may be removed entirely from its socket. Can this tooth be saved? If so, what should a person do at the accident site?

A:

I am sharing this knowledge with everyone of you.
Since it is very common for a healthy tooth to be knocked out and if a person is not aware of what steps should be taken and whether the tooth can be reimplanted or not then he/she will have to go for prosthesis, which has its expenses, and other complications. And no prosthesis is better than to have your own natural tooth in the socket.
So my answer is yes. A tooth may be saved and reimplanted in the socket after its avulsion (complete displacement from its socket)
However it's important to keep in mind that milk tooth/primary tooth/baby tooth can not be reimplanted. The reason being

because of the potential for subsequent damage to developing permanent tooth germs

Reference-(www.aapd.org › G_TraumaPDF Guideline on Management of Acute Dental Trauma - AAPD)
Now if the tooth is permanent then these steps should be followed at the accident site-

•Find the tooth and pick it up by the crown (the white part). Avoid touching the root.
•If the tooth is dirty, wash it briefly (max 10s) under cold running water and reposition it.Once the tooth is back in place, bite on a handkerchief to hold it in position.
•If this is not possible, or for other reasons when replantation of the avulsed tooth is not possible (e.g., an unconscious patient), place the tooth in a glass of milk or another suitable storage medium and bring with the patient to the emergency clinic. The tooth can also be transported in the mouth, keeping it inside the lip or cheek if the patient is conscious. If the patient is very young, he/she could swallow the tooth – therefore it is advisable to get the patient to spit in a container and place the tooth in it. Avoid storage in water!
•If there is access at the place of accident to special storage or transport media (e.g., tissue culture/transport medium, Hanks balanced storage medium (HBSS or saline) such media can preferably be used.
•Seek emergency dental treatment immediately.

Reference
The individual should visit the nearest dental clinic as soon as possible if he/she can not replant the tooth by himself/herself.
Now what all storage media can be used to transport the tooth to a dental clinic?
The excellent and most accessible storage media include cold milk> coconut water> egg white.
A table has been given in this article
comparing different media for storage of a tooth.
I hope I have helped to share some knowledge.
Your doubts are welcome :)

