Q:

Can you achieve nutritional requirements by consuming only organ meat?

I eat for the utility, not pleasure, as my career requires me to be as mentally sharp as possible at all times. Currently, I eat a keto-like diet which includes fish and veggies. I don't eat nuts as I am allergic.
I'm not a huge fan of the sugar content of vegetables, especially in that they knock me out of ketosis. I currently fast daily for ~19 hours (5 hour eating windows), which means that I typically intake a significant amount of sugar during a short period of time; through broccolli, cauliflower, etc.
I'm curious as to whether or not it may be advisable to swap the veggies out for organ meat—as organ meat (chicken hearts, etc) has a strong nutritional profile. It would be nice to cut sugar out of my diet completely. However, I'm worried that there may be unintended consequences or other things I am overlooking.
Looking forward to your kind advice. Thank you.  

A:

Your diet would be exceptionally devoid of vitamin C which exposes you to the risk of scurvy which can occur in 1~3 months, and used to be universally fatal. 
Death occurs from intracranial hemorrhage, and seizures.
https://emedicine.medscape.com/article/125350-overview
I've only seen that in long distance lorry drivers on a diet of meat pies.
In addition the proposed diet is devoid of fibre which predisposes you to diverticulitis, and possibly autoimmune disease due to a disordered gut biome, but that is more speculative.

A:

Unfortunately, no-one can give you a definitive answer here. As mentioned, there have been cases of diverticulitis in low or no-fibre diets, but it is not known if the lack of fibre was the cause.
There is a growing movement led by Dr. Shawn Baker of people following a 'carnivore' / all meat diet, many claiming to have exceptional results. But then, of course, many vegans experience exceptional results on a polar-opposite regime.
To answer your question, it is wise and probably safe to include vegetables in your diet. If you really want to reduce sugar content, swap your current cruciferous vegetables for leafy greens instead. Some of the longest-living populations in the world (i.e. Okinawans) make up 60 - 70% of calories through root vegetables!

