Q:

What is the best cooking oil for a person with ischemic heart disease?

My grandmother has atherosclerosis and suffers from cardiovascular disease (ischemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease). 
The doctor recommended her not to eat butter or ghee. 
Which type of oil (maize oil, sunflower, olive oil) could be considered as alternative in her case?

A:

To make it simple: There are two types of fat: unsaturated ("good fat") and saturated and trans fat ("bad fat").
Current dietary guidelines (American Heart Association, WHO) suggest that saturated fats should be limited to <10% (5-6% for those who would benefit from lowering of LDL cholesterol), and trans fats to <1% of energy or as low as possible. The main purpose of these restrictions is to reduce risk of ischemic heart disease and stroke.
WebMD (http://www.webmd.com/cholesterol-management/features/cholesterol-and-cooking-fats-and-oils?page=2) provides an exhaustive list, where unsaturated and saturated fat can be found:
Unsaturated fat:

Monounsaturated fat is the primary type found in olive, canola, and sesame oils, as well as in avocados and avocado oil, and in nuts
  and their oils. Polyunsaturated fat is prevalent in corn, cottonseed,
  and safflower oils; sunflower seeds and sunflower oil; flaxseed and
  flaxseed oil; soybeans and soybean oil; tub margarine and soft
  spreads; and seafood.

Saturated fat:

Coconut oil, palm, palm kernel oil, and cocoa butter supply large
  amounts of saturated fat, too, but are cholesterol-free. (...) Trans fat is
  found in stick margarine, some tub margarine, and in shortening, as
  well as in some processed foods such as cookies, crackers, and pastry.

Interestingly a recent meta-analysis published (aggregation and synthetising of different studies) in the BMJ  (http://www.bmj.com/content/351/bmj.h3978) has somehow questioned the "negative effect" of saturated fat on cardiovascular disease. But considering that their results were associated with a high heterogeneity (= how consistent the effect across the combined studies is, ie in this case low), larger studies are needed to confirm their results.
To your question: I have not found any study comparing directly different "good fat" oils together, so probably, considering one of the oils which contains unsaturated fat would be a wise choise (if you respect the dietary guidelines). Although, olive oil has been increasingly associated with reduced cardiovascular risk (http://bmcmedicine.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1741-7015-12-78), depending on your geographic location, this oil can be difficult to find.

