Q:

What's the cause of change in pitch of nearby sound when you move your head?

I was familiar with this phenomenon since my childhood. But I got curious about it just recently.
For example, imagine you are in a restroom with an air conditioning fan which produces sound while spinning.
When you move your head repeatedly right and left and/or up and down you perceive the sound in two different pitches (for example, F,G,F,G,F,G,...)
I suspect this is because of the change in the direction of fluid in the inner ear. But even in a high speed moving of the head you can still experience the phenomenon; And I think may be the fluid isn't the cause at the same time, because it doesn't have the time to change direction in high speed head movements.
But why do you only hear the sound in two pitches? For example, F when your head points to the right; and G when your head points to the left. Why you can't hear a third pitch either?
Update: I searched the internet and found this. But still don't know the reason.

I just think it's weird that I can change tone of low frequency sounds like computers and fridges by turning my head slightly left or right and they get louder.

A:

As @M.A.R. mentions in the comment thread to your question, this is nothing but the Doppler effect.
When you close the distance to an object emitting sound, the next sound wave hits your eardrum faster than it would if you'd stay stationary (same applies to the sound-emitting object moving towards you, like an ambulance). Hence, even though the frequency emitted is lower, it appears higher to you since you hit the sound waves in higher frequency due to your movement.
The opposite happens when you move your head away from the object: you delay the next wave hitting your eardrums as the sound wave needs to catch up with your moving head first. The result is that the tone appears as if it had lower frequency than that at which it is indeed emitted.
Since ears can be very sensitive towards pitch change, this effect can be experienced even when you just move your ear towards or away from a sound emitting object fast enough. When experiencing this by turning your head, this suggests your experience is created because of one ear being significantly more sensitive than the other one, since otherwise, they'd even out. I'd check with a doctor if I were you.

