Q:

How to interpret diabetic complications?

I have a database of diabetic patients. Mostly 80 % are T2DM patients. Now I would like to identify the T2DM patients based on their conditions reported. I mean when patients visit hospital (diabetic specialist clinic), they report/record their conditions.
So I decided that I will use the disorders list CLICK HERE of Type 2 diabetes to identify patients who are diagnosed for T2DM
However, I see that few patients have conditions like below which aren't covered or included in disorders list?
 Gastroesophageal reflux disease
 Tinnitus
 Blood chemistry abnormal
 Gastroesophageal reflux disease without esophagitis
 Manifest vertical squint
 Nonulcer dyspepsia
 Chronic gastritis

and other patient has below two conditions
 sleep apnea
 obesity

Why are the above items missing in the disorders list? Aren't they called complications? Am I right to understand the above conditions have arisen due to T2DM? Because my data is from Diabetes specialist clinic? Am I missing something here?
complications are nothing but diseases arising out of the main condition (which is T2DM) in my case.
He has the above conditions because he was diagnosed with T2DM. It can't be due to any other reason right? I mean why does he have to visit Diabetic specialist clinic for above conditions if it's not related to T2DM
How can I address this scenario? Can you help?

A:

Conditions listed in the Shrimp list are direct complications of diabetes type 2. For example, "coronary artery disease" results from 2 pathological processes in diabetes type 2 (hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia).
Coronary artery disease can result in congestive heart failure, but this is now a complication of coronary heart disease, not diabetes 2.
Angina pectoris and chest pain are not complications, but symptoms (a complication needs to be a condition), and these symptoms are from heart disease, not from diabetes.
Individuals with diabetes type 2 are at increased risk of infections, such as pneumonia, but not every infection will be then listed as a complication of diabetes. The Shrimp list does not mention any infection, because it's still not a direct result of diabetes, it's just from increased risk. Dyspnea is a symptom (not a condition) of pneumonia (not of diabetes).
And finally, any individual appearing in a diabetic clinic, can have a condition that is completely unrelated to diabetes and is not its complication, for example, essential hypertension and epidemic vertigo.
So, a complication is a direct consequence of a disease. If that complication results in another complication, the latter may not be considered as a complication of diabetes anymore. In practice, this may not be so matematicaly clean, but that's the principle.
Also, if you have a list of complications that are actual complications of diabetes in a certain individual, and you don't know he/she has diabetes, you can't just diagnose them backwards from complications. For example, coronary heart disease is not only a complication of diabetes, but also of high blood pressure, etc.

