Q:

What is the estimated weight of COVID-19 viruses present in the body of someone with the disease?

Pictures of this coronavirus have been published, and several details about its morphology, including a size around 120 nm.
My questions are:

What is the weight of a single COVID-19 virus? Can we assume a density similar to water leading to a weight of 4/3*PI*120nm^3 / 1000 = 4.2 10-21 g if I'm not mistaken? 
Approximately how many viruses of this type are present in the body of someone infected (including asymptomatic carrier), and thus what is the average weight per person?
This page states It has been estimated that there are over 380 trillion viruses inhabiting us, a community collectively known as the human virome
However, it focuses on harmless viruses and healthy people. I haven't found numbers related to someone infected by a virus.
How does this compares to poisons1? This article about the deadliest one, botulinum toxin, states: Extrapolating from its effect on mice, an intravenous dose of just 10⁻⁷g would be fatal to a 70kg person.

1 I understand it can't easily compare with poisons as a poison doesn't duplicates itself inside a body and the immune system, hopefully, plays a role here.

A:

A single CoV-2-SARS virus weight is around one femtogram (10-15g).
An infected person contains between one billion and one hundred billion viruses, i.e. between one and one hundred micrograms.
Estimating the number of contaminated people at a given time to 50 million (including undetected cases), we reach a worldwide number of five hundred millions of billions viruses, with a cumulative weight being somewhere between 100 g and 1 kg.
Source: The total number and mass of SARS-CoV-2 virions in an infected person by
Ron Sender, Yinon M. Bar-On, Avi Flamholz, Shmuel Gleizer, Biana Bernsthein, Rob
Phillips, Ron Milo

Update: 2021-02-15:
A more recent computation didn't focus on the weight but on the volume:

All the coronavirus in the world could fit inside a Coke can, with plenty of room to spare

