Q:

Can wisdom tooth cause hip ache?

I went to a doctor a few days ago for a chronic ache at the left hip. She performed some kinesiology tests on me and said that's the wisdom tooth position that influenced my hip and causes me pain. She suggested to do an x-ray and have it out if needed.
Is that even possible?

A:

According to human kinetics, the movements of hip muscles in hip joint are performed by a series of muscles.
For example, when hip is doing external rotation (30° with the hip extended, 50° with the hip flexed), it's using the gluteal muscles including iliopsoas (combination of the psoas major and the iliacus at their inferior ends).
According to Meridian system, these muscles help keep the lumbar curve in the spine and weakness on one side can cause the hip to drop or the foot to turn in on the affected side causing low back/pelvic pain or a problem with the ileocaecal valve.
For example, when a wisdom tooth is extracted (or possibly when it's in the wrong position), it usually forms a cavitation within the jawbone leaching toxins and causing a variety of chronic health consequences which can adversely affect the heart, small intestine, hormone production and further forming cavitations may cause problems with the large intestine or lung (See: Dental Cavitations, video 1 & 2). This may also relate to persistent or recurrent shoulder pain or weakness (due to subscapularis tension or laxity) which may be indirectly associated with the extraction site and an indicator of a heart issue.
Traditional Asian medicine has long maintained that every body part (ie: organs, tissues, glands, etc) is animated by a specific acupuncture meridians (pathways). All the meridians run through the teeth or their sockets and in this way each tooth is related to the rest of the body. The following chart explains that relationship:

Which can help you to establish potential links between dental and systemic health issues.
This short video explains how there is a two-way relationship such that stresses within the body can manifest in the mouth as toothache.
See also: Muscles Associated With Meridians and The meridian system at Wikipedia.
I hope that helps. 

