Q:

How is a beard dirtier than a toilet?

Is it true that beard is more dirtier than toilet? Does someone has any specific answer? I read it in a website (https://www.speakingtrees.in/your-beard-is-dirtier-than-a-toilet-health/), but I am not satisfied with what they say.

A:

A better comparison than "beard vs toilet" may be "face with beard vs face without beard."
This is actually a reasonable concern in the context of healthcare, where healthcare staff can be a vector for disease and where vulnerable people are numerous. If facial hair is a reservoir for disease, it might be reasonable to recommend that healthcare staff remain clean-shaven.
Wakeam, et al. found that clean-shaven men versus those with facial hair had different compositions of facial bacteria. Men with facial hair actually had less of some bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus. The authors suggest that small cuts from shaving might actually promote colonization in some cases. 
Overall, though, they conclude that there isn't really any increased risk from the facial bacterial milieu of those with facial hair (there are separate studies looking at issues with surgical masks, etc, but I feel it's a bit of a stretch to go into that here).
Lab techs with facial hair had numerically a few more bacterial species present than those without, but the differences aren't substantial and don't really represent any risk (Lindeholm and Arpi 2016) - importantly, coagulase-negative staphylococci were more common in the clean-shaven techs, which are normal skin bacteria but are also a risk for infection of open wounds.
Summary and answer to the question
Beards might have more bacteria than a typical toilet, but an unbearded face probably does, too. People, and animals more generally, are great hosts for a variety of microbial species.

Wakeam, E., Hernandez, R. A., Morales, D. R., Finlayson, S. R. G., Klompas, M., & Zinner, M. J. (2014). Bacterial ecology of hospital workers' facial hair: a cross-sectional study. Journal of Hospital Infection, 87(1), 63-67.
Lindeholm, Y. N., & Arpi, M. (2016). Facial hair–what about clinical microbiology technicians?. Journal of Hospital Infection, 93(3), 313-314.

