Q:

Why does icing work best when applied shortly after tendinitis symptoms appear?

It is recommended to apply ice as soon as possible after tendinitis symptoms appear. Is icing quickly after the injury much more effective than after a while (e.g. a few days), and if so why?
This Yahoo answer post by Susan says :

Apply ice in the first 48 hours following an injury is effective in
  that it will constrict blood vessels, thereby limiting fluid rushing
  to the area and reducing swelling. The cold can also be helpful in
  pain reduction. With an injury, a knee included, the R.I.C.E. method
  is best to employ- Rest, Ice, Compression and Elevation. Rest the
  area, apply Ice (15-20 minutes at a time, never directly on the skin
  and always allowing the skin to return to normal body temperature
  before reapplication- this usually means waiting at least 60 minutes
  between applications), Compression as in an Ace bandage or similar
  wrap and Elevating the affected limb on pillows or in a sling above
  the level of the heart. You can take Acetaminophen or Ibuprofen for
  pain relief with Ibuprofen being the better choice due to its
  anti-inflammatory properties. It is best to take it with food. 
Icing an injury will not stiffen a joint. 
The cons to icing an injury are leaving the ice on for too long a
  period of time or icing the injury beyond the first 48 hours. After
  the first 48 hours, moist heat should be used. 
If the patient is undergoing Physical Therapy, often the Therapist
  will begin the session with moist heat to relax and loosen the area to
  be worked and after going through exercises they may apply ice briefly
  in closing.

But does not give a reference.

A:

We ice injuries like tendinitis because they reduce the pain and inflammation. Ice does not actually fix your tendinitis, it just makes it easier to deal with. The reason it is recommended that you ice immediately after you see symptoms of tendinitis is so you can relieve the pain quicker. Icing after a few days will probably be little less effective (the tendon will have also healed a bit naturally, so the difference will be less), but if you can get rid of the pain and reduce the inflammation earlier, why wouldn't you? This is more of logic thing rather than a scientific study. 
Also, if you do wait a few days before doing anything, apply heat as it will increase blood flow to the injury, allowing it to heal faster.

Pain Science - Icing for Injuries, Tendinitis, and Inflammation
Mayo Clinic - Which is better for relieving tendinitis pain — ice or heat? (Expert Answer)

