Q:

What are the functions of these parts of the brain (MRI)?

This is an MRI images of my brain. There are three red arrows pointing at there parts of the brain. 
I would like to the functions of these three parts, Please?
Are they control motion, speaking, hearing, smelling, emotions or something else?
I'm diagnosed with MS. I had optic neuritis. I don't feel anything else wrong. But they are three parts so I think there are three symptoms, not just one. So, would you help me discover what else I have? 
I know that It is not allowed to diagnose people in this site. But this is not diagnoses. I just would like to know what the functions of these parts of the brain are.
Thank you very much,

A:

Three spots in the brain do not automatically mean three different symptoms. Even if those spots are abnormal, they do not necessary cause any damage.
A doctor in the "2. MRI report" says there are:

...few bilateral parietal subcortical tiny white matter
  foci...warrant further evaluation to exclude possibility of early
  onset MS.

So, there are 3 tiny spots in the white matter of the parietal lobes of the brain.
Parietal Lobes (Brainmadesimple.com):

Function: Processes sensory information that had to do with taste,
  temperature, and touch

Brain Lesions (MedicineNet):

Parietal lobes are where sensation is processed and interpreted. Aside
  from touch, pressure and pain, there is also the concept of spatial
  cognition, where the brain recognizes where the body is in
  relationship to the area around it.

What is the function of the parietal lobe? (Reference.com):

Patients with damage to the parietal lobe can suffer from language or
  memory loss and might also be unable to hold a gaze. Thus, the
  parietal lobe helps people recall words when speaking.
The visual processing within the parietal lobe facilitates writing and
  mathematical calculations. The parietal lobe is also responsible for
  perception and language processing.

Memory Dysfunction in Multiple Sclerosis...(American Journal of Neuroradiology):

Lesions of the deep white matter in the left parietal lobe have been
  found to be associated with impaired performance on the paired
  associates test, a test of learning and memory.

I'm not saying you should or will suffer from any of these symptoms. A neurologist, who can perform an exact neurological examination might detect some signs you are not aware of.

