Q:

Should fever due to infections be treated?

Recently I read in an article

The mechanism of fever appears to be a defensive reaction by the body against infectious disease. When bacteria or viruses invade the body and cause tissue injury, one of the immune system’s responses is to produce pyrogens. These chemicals are carried by the blood to the brain, where they disturb the functioning of the hypothalamus, the part of the brain that regulates body temperature. The pyrogens inhibit heat-sensing neurons and excite cold-sensing ones, and the altering of these temperature sensors deceives the hypothalamus into thinking the body is cooler than it actually is. In response, the hypothalamus raises the body’s temperature above the normal range, thereby causing a fever. The above-normal temperatures are thought to help defend against microbial invasion because they stimulate the motion, activity, and multiplication of white blood cells and increase the production of antibodies. At the same time, elevated heat levels may directly kill or inhibit the growth of some bacteria and viruses that can tolerate only a narrow temperature range

Now usually as soon as we realise that we have fever, we immediately take antipyretics, eg. Paracetamol.
Now it will cool the body temperature. Isn't this dangerous and wrong?
My question is regarding fever due to infections only.

A:

In normal patients fever can reduce our efficiency or comfort for doing work. For mild infections one may wait for the fever to get over and let our immune response do their job.
For early and effective treatment we prefer antibiotics with antipyretics as antibiotics can do their job alone  and fever might not be necessary here. It will give early response than giving antipyretic alone or letting fever be alone.
The other point is that, we prefer antibiotics with antipyretics because the organism inflicting it may cause more damage to our body before getting killed by immune system and thus increasing morbidity and mortality.
Fever is not the only mechanism to fight infection, some people take antipyretics alone which reduces fever and provides comfort but our immune system alone is effective enough to curb some mild infections, so people who take antipyretics alone are not in too much danger but it may prolong the illness in some cases. It is not the general prescribed method and antipyretics should be used with indications like other drugs and not for fever per se (though this reference is for the pediatric population but in general practice, antipyretics are generally not given alone for infections and the same argument can be applied)
For some common viral fevers only conservative treatment is required. Antipyretics are given if temperature is too high because in that case its benifit can outweigh the effects of having fever, otherwise we must let fever to happen recognising the fact that fever is beneficial or not is still controversial (considering the fact that fever in this case can be benificial.)
Finally, there can be many other indications for the use of antipyretic to reduce fever, not just considering a simple argument that it can enhance the immune response eg. paracetamol is given in dengue fever or antipyretics are given to prevent febrile seizures. So I recommend taking antipyretics under the prescription of the concerned medical professional only.

