Q:

What are some ways to stop and prevent acne?

I sleep on my back and have acne there. What can I do to keep the acne from getting worse and prevent future acne from developing? (I'm not sure if sleeping position matters.)

A:

While I cannot comment on the issue of laying on your back causing acne, I hope my answer helps with your concern for prevention. 
There is some evidence that glycemic index (GI) is related to more severe acne. One study examining the diets of 287 people from ages 18-25 with no, mild or severe acne, found that those with worse acne had greater dietary (glycemic index). The foods which were significantly different among groups included servings of:

Sugar
Milk (with non-fat milk having more of an effect than whole milk)
Saturated fat
Trans Fat
Fish (indicating higher fish consumption in those with no or less severe acne)
Fruit and fruit juice equivalents (presumably because fruit juice has added sugar making them high GI foods)

The authors propose that GI is related to acne development because of the effect on Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 or (IGF-1), but also highlight conflicting evidence. I will avoid further biological discussion of how this is thought to happen in the body because that is not your question.
The authors do propose that milk may be related to worse acne because it contains IGF-1 and its insulinemic response is much higher than would be expected because of its glycemic load alone so they hypothesize that the IGF-1 leads to (with a few steps omitted) greater sebaceous lipogenesis and sebum output, leading to acne.
The authors also comment on the negative relationship between fish consumption and hypothesize that n-3 polyunsaturated  fatty acids (omega-3 fatty acids) have a protective effect against acne.
Study limitations include that the data are self-reported as was the acne severity. 
A recent review of the dietary and acne literature indicated that there haven't been any randomized controlled trials that can conclude causally that high glycemic load, dairy and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have an effect on acne. The evidence is more convincing for glycemic load, and less robust or conclusive for milk and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids.
The aforementioned data are inconclusive but worth taking note to see if reduction of these foods benefit your acne. See this for a in-depth discussion of the above issues.
References 

Burris, J., Rietkerk, W., & Woolf, K. (2013). Acne: the role of medical nutrition therapy. Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, 113(3), 416–430. 
Burris, J., Rietkerk, W., & Woolf, K. (2014). Relationships of self-reported dietary factors and perceived acne severity in a cohort of New York young adults. Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, 114(3), 384–392. 

