Q:

What to do when an earthquake hits while inside a MRI?

As mentioned earlier, I had a MRI today... I wasn't in the waiting room for long so I didn't have a chance to read the bright yellow folder labeled "Earthquake Guide during a MRI." 
But as I walked home, I kept thinking about that folder because it seemed so bizarre to me. Was this a thing that happens a lot that necessitated a guidebook? 
I had never considered what would happen if you were in the MRI during an earthquake? Was there actually an official safety protocol for this? 
Except... try to wriggle your way out and go somewhere safe? 

A:

Do nothing, stay inside the MRI machine.
I never performed MRI scan in the past but I had experience of several quite big earthquakes within the last 10 years. So I provide my thought on this for your reference.
I have to say that you probably already in the safest place during an earth quake in a building for two reasons: 
1) rooms for big scanners are usually build with solid concrete and very likely to be strengthened further comparing with standard concrete building for accomodation or office. That makes the room very unlikely to collapse during an earth quake. 
2) MRI machine is basically a giant piece of metal. If earth quake strikes during your scan, you have already surrounded and protected by this heavy and strong metal structure. This makes your situation even safer as you will be well protected even the building collapse. 
Based on my personal experience on earth quakes, I think you will be pretty safe even there is a magnitude 8 or less earth quake happen during your MRI scan. For the quakes that more than magnitude 8, shallow and close by, well, good luck.

A:

You most definitely do not want to be in an MRI machine during an earthquake. The superconducting magnets in an MRI scanner are cooled by liquid helium. If the cooling system is damaged and there is a leak, this could be very bad for you.
I have not seen what is in the yellow folder, but earthquakes present a particularly dangerous situation for MRI machines that is not common with fires. As you may know, you cannot bring metal into the scanning room. This means you need a to use a special wheelchair or stretcher to remove someone who is 
not able to move on their own. During an emergency a staff member would normally quench the magnet by venting the liquid helium to rapidly eliminate the magnetic field and allow emergency personal to enter the room with standard equipment. Quenching the magnet can break the machine so you would only want to do it when necessary. The quenching system is generally designed to handle fires, but can be damaged during an earthquake (https://www.imedco.net/changing-seismic-regulations-and-the-effect-on-mri-shielding-design/) which could allow the liquid helium to enter the scanning room. The quenching process is pretty dramatic
My guess is that the big yellow folder provides guidance on removing patients from the scanning room, when to quench the magnet, and what to do if the emergency quench button fails.

