Q:

Does a cancer survivor have a higher than average risk of future cancer?

With no recurrence five years after treatment, does a person have average risk of a future cancer ( considered in context of the persons demographics )? Would the risk be affected by the type of treatment of the original cancer ( chemo, radiation, surgery, etc.) ? 

A:

The first part of your question is very difficult to answer for the reasons mentioned in Narusan's comment: Specifically, comparing cancer incidence rates between many different groups of cancer survivors and people from matched demographics who have never had cancer is going to be very difficult, especially since these sets of data would be sourced from varied studies without the same controls. However, the second part of your question—whether the original type of treatment plays a role in new cancer formation (secondary malignancies)—has been investigated.

"The calculated risk of fatal secondary malignancies from intensity-modulated radiation therapy." Kry et al. International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology Physics. 2005.
Results: Depending on treatment energy, the IMRT treatments required 3.5–4.9 times as many monitor units to deliver as did the conventional treatment. The conservative maximum risk of fatal second malignancy was 1.7% for conventional radiation, 2.1% for IMRT using 10-MV X-rays, and 5.1% for IMRT using 18-MV X-rays.
Conclusion: The risk of fatal secondary malignancy differed substantially between IMRT [intensity-modulated radiation therapy] and conventional radiation therapy for prostate cancer, as well as between different IMRT approaches. Perhaps this risk should be considered when choosing the optimal treatment technique and delivery system for patients who will undergo prostate radiation.

Here, IMRT was shown to deliver a higher "out-of-field" dose (raditation  to untargeted parts of the body) and had a greater associated risk of secondary malignancies than conventional radiation.

"Risk of Developing Second Cancer From Neutron Dose in Proton Therapy as Function of Field Characteristics, Organ, and Patient Age." Jarlskog et al. International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology Physics. 2008.
Results: The main contributors (>80%) to the neutron-induced risk are neutrons generated in the treatment head. Treatment volume can influence the risk by up to a factor of ∼2. Young patients are subject to significantly greater risks than are adult patients because of the geometric differences and age dependency of the risk models. Breast cancer should be the main concern for females. For males, the risks of lung cancer, leukemia, and thyroid cancer were significant for pediatric patients. In contrast, leukemia was the leading risk for an adult. Most lifetime risks were <1% (70-Gy treatment). The only exceptions were breast, thyroid, and lung cancer for females. For female thyroid cancer, treatment risk can exceed baseline risk.
Conclusion: The risk of developing a second malignancy from neutrons from proton beam therapy of a brain lesion is small (i.e., presumably outweighed by the therapeutic benefit) but not negligible (i.e., potentially greater than the baseline risk). The patient's age at treatment plays a major role.

Like the IMRT, neutron bombardment from proton therapy was shown to have off-target effects and contribute to new cancers.
Hopefully, these papers serve as decent representations of different secondary malignancy potentials with respect to primary cancer therapies. In the article "Understanding Your Risk of Developing Secondary Cancers," the National Comprehensive Cancer Network reminds readers to prioritize their care without regard to comparatively low-probability secondary malignancies:

...patients should not cause themselves undue worry about this possibility. "The biggest risk to patients with cancer is the cancer that they are battling. They should follow the treatment plan designed by their oncologist and not worry about other factors. The vast majority of patients are not going to develop a secondary malignancy because of cancer treatment for the original cancer."

Finally, some medical imaging techniques are similar to those cancer therapies that are more likely to cause secondary malignancies. The BEIR VII report "Health Risks from Exposure to Low Levels of Ionizing Radiation" includes risk estimates for different imaging and radiology techinques (although some academic debate exists on whether it's an appropriate estimation tool for this, the table below uses data from BEIR VII). Keep in mind that any amount of ionizing radiation is not good for your dividing cells!

(XR: x-ray; NM: nuclear medicine; CT: computerized tomography; IR: interventional radiology)

