Q:

What is rock salt? Is it helpful for diabetics?

I am a type-2 diabetic on oral medications (not insulin). On the recommendation of a relative, I started using rock salt in my food. Now, I have few questions on consumption of rock salt.

Primarily, I was told that rock salt will cut down on my sodium. Is that correct?
I was told that alternatives to common salt are heavy in potassium, which is bad, especially for diabetics as they might suffer from kidney related diseases. Is that true in the case of rock salt?
What is the composition of rock salt? Does it contain iodine? I am not sure about other countries, but iodine is a common element found in all salts sold in India, as Indians are found to be deficient in iodine, and salt is the cheapest way to get iodine to the population.

Here's an example.

A:

Rock salt is no different from sea salt or table salt, chemically speaking, as all of them consist of nearly-pure sodium chloride (NaCl) 
The UK Consensus Action on Salt and Health organisation has released a study that showed that NaCl content of various types of standard and "gourmet" salts were not significantly different. 

It also detailed a few misconceptions about "gourmet" salts:

Myth 1. Gourmet salts contain less sodium than table salt so are
  better for your health Gourmet salts contain approximately 100% sodium
  chloride, just like your average table salt, meaning they will have
  exactly the same effect on your blood pressure and health.
Myth 2. Gourmet salts contain minerals essential for good health
  Gourmet salts are not a good source of essential minerals, instead you
  can get all the vitamins and minerals you need from a balanced diet
  with plenty of fruit and vegetables.
Myth 3. Gourmet salts taste better or stronger so you can use less
  There is no evidence that people use less of any type of salt. If you
  prefer the flavour of a particular type of salt, and really want to
  use it, use less to help cut down on your salt intake. Some gourmet
  salts also have a larger crystal size, these might not taste as salty
  as finer grains so the danger is you could end up using even more!

