Q:

How can I protect my eyesight when using computers?

My job requires long periods of computer screen use. I have good eyesight (20/15) and don't wear glasses, but I definitely notice my eyes feeling fatigued at the end of the day. Sometimes when I'm short on sleep, I have trouble focusing or see slightly blurred vision.
I want to protect my eyesight as much as possible. What are the best practices for doing so if you spend a lot of time staring at screens?

A:

20-20-20 Rule
Every 20 minutes of looking at the screen, look at something 20 feet away for 20 seconds. Also, try to blink a lot.
Adjusting settings
Using a larger font to read helps to reduce eye strain. Adjusting your brightness helps, usually brighter screens are better in brighter rooms, dimmer screens are better in dark rooms.
Also, try to make your computer screen lower than your eyes; more of your eye is covered by your eyelid when you look down, so there will be more lubrication and you will subconsciously blink more.
Eating
Eat foods with vitamin A, which helps with the health of your eyes. See this question for more.

The 20-20-20 Rule: Preventing Digital Eye Strain
Computer vision syndrome: a review of ocular causes and potential treatments
Assessing Computer Vision Syndrome Risk for Pilots
Eyestrain

A:

There are some options you have to reduce eye strain.

You can get an anti glare cover for your monitor
You can also adjust lighting of your work area (not always possible) 
by lowering internal lighting and blocking external lighting.
You can adjust the setting of your monitor to make the brightness
similar to your surroundings which will help with strain
You can blink more often to keep your eyes from drying out   You can 
take breaks both by leaving your computer or by moving your eyes
around the room/desk and avoiding your computer every once in a
while.
You can set up your desk to make sure printed material is in easy eye
reach and lighted similarly
You can look into getting specialized gaming/computer glasses which
are designed to reduce eye strain and fatigue

http://www.allaboutvision.com/cvs/irritated.htm

A:

The primary risk is what is called Computer Vision Syndrome (ref, ref, ref).
The American Optometric Association (referenced above) recommends the following changes in viewing habits to alleviate symptoms:

Some important factors in preventing or reducing the symptoms of CVS
  have to do with the computer and how it is used. This includes
  lighting conditions, chair comfort, location of reference materials,
  position of the monitor, and the use of rest breaks.

Location of computer screen - Most people find it more comfortable to
  view a computer when the eyes are looking downward. Optimally, the
  computer screen should be 15 to 20 degrees below eye level (about 4 or
  5 inches) as measured from the center of the screen and 20 to 28
  inches from the eyes. 
Reference materials - These materials should be
  located above the keyboard and below the monitor. If this is not
  possible, a document holder can be used beside the monitor. The goal
  is to position the documents so you do not need to move your head to
  look from the document to the screen.
Lighting - Position the computer
  screen to avoid glare, particularly from overhead lighting or windows.
  Use blinds or drapes on windows and replace the light bulbs in desk
  lamps with bulbs of lower wattage. 
Anti-glare screens - If there is no
  way to minimize glare from light sources, consider using a screen
  glare filter. These filters decrease the amount of light reflected
  from the screen.
Seating position - Chairs should be comfortably
  padded and conform to the body. Chair height should be adjusted so
  your feet rest flat on the floor. If your chair has arms, they should
  be adjusted to provide arm support while you are typing. Your wrists
  shouldn't rest on the keyboard when typing.
Rest breaks - To prevent
  eyestrain, try to rest your eyes when using the computer for long
  periods. Rest your eyes for 15 minutes after two hours of continuous
  computer use. Also, for every 20 minutes of computer viewing, look
  into the distance for 20 seconds to allow your eyes a chance to
  refocus. 
Blinking - To minimize your chances of developing dry eye
  when using a computer, make an effort to blink frequently. Blinking
  keeps the front surface of your eye moist.

Regular eye examinations and proper viewing habits can help to prevent
  or reduce the development of the symptoms associated with Computer
  Vision Syndrome.

Also, from WebMD:

Tweak your computer settings. You don't have to live with the factory-installed settings on your computer if you're uncomfortable. Adjust the brightness, contrast, and font size until you find the best settings for your vision.

Gunnar glasses: Studies have shown some short term relief but generally no evidence has yet surfaced to support benefits of these glasses for long term health.

