Q:

A healthy gluten- and lactose-free diets for a teenager

Can you provide me some examples of healthy gluten and lactose-free diet for a teenager? 

A:

No exact diets here, but just some reasoning why to eat or avoid something.

In a gluten-free diet, you need to avoid wheat and its varieties, rye, barley, triticale, malt, beer, brewer's yeast, breaded meats and commercial foods with added gluten. Here's a detailed list of foods to avoid.
What you can eat:

Cereals: rice, corn, oats, buckwheat and others that are not on the avoid list
Vegetables, legumes, fruits and nuts
Meat and fish, non-breaded (some packaged products may contain gluten)
Eggs
Dairy

If you are lactose intolerant, your diet usually does not need to be 100% "lactose-free" but just "low-lactose," with avoiding milk, ice cream and yogurts; hard cheeses and butter should be OK (NIDDK.nih.gov). Here's an extensive list of foods to avoid, but this is only for someone with severe lactose intolerance.

Currently, many health experts recommend to limit:

Foods with added sugars: most carbonated drinks, ice-tea, energy drinks (but also fruit juices), sweets and desserts (PubMed), becuse they may stimulate food craving and thus unhealthy weight gain
Salt intake (Heart.org), because excessive sodium can contribute to high blood pressure and artery damage 
Red meat and processed meat, such as in fast food (PubMed), which are possibly associated with some chronic diseases
Foods with trans fats, which have "partially-hydrogenated oil" on the label, for example, certain cakes, biscuits, crackers, French-fries and frozen foods (Cleveland Clinic), which can raise blood cholesterol levels

They also recommend to include enough fiber from foods, such as whole-grain cereals, fruits, vegetables and legumes, because it can help maintain intestinal health (PubMed).

For the end:

Listen to your gut (literally).
Eat what you find out is good for you, for your study, work and sleep.
Maintain a health body weight.
Someone with bowel problems can get a lot of insight if get checked for common conditions, such as celiac disease, lactose intolerance, fructose malabsorption and food allergies.

