Q:

Confusion regarding splitting of the s2 heart sound

I recently read that during inspiration the negative pressure in the thoracic cavity leads to increased venous return to the right atrium. This leads to late closure of the pulmonary valve as the extra blood that came in is pushed out by the right ventricle. So here’s the confusion, aren’t the AV valves closed during the entire ventricular systole? I mean the pressure in the ventricles during the systole is quite higher than that of the atria so how does this suctioned blood (during inspiration) reaches the right ventricle when the AV valve is closed? It opens I perfectly remember, only after the isovolumetric relaxation of the ventricles. Am I missing something?
Link from the stanford university: https://stanfordmedicine25.stanford.edu/the25/cardiac.html
Also the excerpt: “Additionally, during inspiration, more blood fills the right ventricle leading to a slightly longer ejection time, adding to the delayed pulmonic valve closure.”
How is this possible?

A:

The respiratory and cardiac cycles vary in length. While the average adult respiratory rate is between 12-20 breaths per minute, the heart beats at an average of 60-100 bpm. During a single respiratory cycle (inspiration plus expiration), a person will complete several cardiac cycles. As such, during inspiration, while the blood immediately enters the RA, it also flows into the RV and then into the PA within the same respiratory cycle.
(In addition, vascular resistance in the PA is decreased during inspiration, thus allowing for even greater volumes of blood to flow across the pulmonic valve and subsequently delay the P2 heart sound further.)
This chart might help illustrate the point.

A chart depicting the motion of cardiac and respiratory series for 40
phantoms with 5 cardiac and 1 respiratory cycle from end-inhalation to
exhalation.

Chart Source:
Huh Y, Shrestha U, Gullberg GT, Seo Y. Monte Carlo Simulation and Reconstruction: Assessment of Myocardial Perfusion Imaging of Tracer Dynamics With Cardiac Motion Due to Deformation and Respiration Using Gamma Camera With Continuous Acquisition. Frontiers in Cardiovascular Medicine. 2022;9. doi:https://doi.org/10.3389/fcvm.2022.871967

