Q:

Countries where medical residents actually work normal hours

I recently finished my MD degree in Canada and am wondering what to do for a career. I know (after trying) I'm definitely not able to work the long hours residency programs in North America demand. I see that in some other countries the law specifies more reasonable working hours, but that these laws are often disregarded in practice.
So, where could I actually work as a medical resident doing 40 hours a week?
EDIT: If anyone is still interested in this question, here's what I have found out more recently:

Some European/Scandinavian countries (Finland, Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, etc.) do seem to respect maximum hours more seriously. However, these countries accept very few international candidates, and require language proficiency and exams in their local languages BEFORE applying (if acceptation were conditional to passing a language exam within the 1st year or whatever it might work, but as it stands now you would have to learn several languages to apply in several countries with still a large probability of rejection)!
Canada is still very bad, my fellow graduates who are now doing residency report many hospitals require 80 to 100h weeks (against the threat of failing the rotation), with lots of cases of burnout and/or depression among the residents.
For now I've gone back to academia where the work culture is much less hostile (though you can see from the Academia SE that it's far from perfect).

A:

In the states (US) where laws restrict the number of hours a resident can work, there is a common "workaround" - e.g. a minimum number of hours off to rest - and a return to duty, in effect legally complying (e.g. if the law states no more than 13 consecutive hours, the resident might get a 2-hour break after 8 hours, only to return for another 8 hours.) It's not enough for true compliance. Furthermore, they do not include the increasing number of hours that doctors are charting from home due to the complex and time consuming requirements of Electronic Medical Records. (Even the majority of older, experienced physicians do at least an hour of charting during "off duty" hours/workday. I'm not sure about other countries.
If you're looking for a residency where there is compliance with the spirit of the law, I'd look at the Scandinavian countries, esp Sweden and Denmark.
Resident duty hours around the globe: where are we now?

