Q:

Studies on the efficacy of CBD to fight connective tissue inflammation

In the last 2 years, I have began armwrestling competitively in tournaments (yes its a real thing!) across the northeastern US. In armwrestling, your tendons and ligaments take a lot more damage than your muscles, which a lot of people have a difficult time understanding. But armwrestling is largely a static exercise with your body straining at 100% maximal effort and very little movement occurring for 20 or 30 seconds, sometimes longer. And when you exert yourself like this the stress transfers from your muscles into the things holding those muscles onto your bones.
I have began hearing a lot of rhetoric about the "magic" of CBD oil for healing damaged connective tissue and/or reducing inflammation around said damaged connective tissue.
I'm wondering whether there is any substantiated medical evidence to support these claims. Any white papers or bona fide research generally-accepted results?

A:

What you’ve heard is rooted in fact. CBD has well-known and well-characterized anti-inflammatory effects. [1,2] 
It also has demonstrable chondrogenic effects:

This review discusses the role of the cannabinoid system in cartilage tissue and endeavors to establish if targeting the cannabinoid system has potential in mesenchymal stem cell based tissue-engineered cartilage repair strategies. The review discusses the potential of cannabinoids to protect against the degradation of cartilage in inflamed arthritic joints and the influence of cannabinoids on the chondrocyte precursors, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). We provide experimental evidence to show that activation of the cannabinoid system enhances the survival, migration and chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs, which are three major tenets behind the success of a cell-based tissue-engineered cartilage repair strategy. These findings highlight the potential for cannabinoids to provide a dual function by acting as anti-inflammatory agents as well as regulators of MSC biology in order to enhance tissue engineering strategies aimed at cartilage repair. [3]

Recent research has also shown that CBD decreases MMP9 (an enzyme that degrades extracellular matrix proteins in the body) expression and activity, which would also contribute to a protective effect on your connective tissue. [4]

