Q:

Kettlebell juggling and transfer of deseases

Kettlebell jugglers all have  friction-made blisters on their palms. Gloves are forbidden by the rules. Well one juggler takes the handle of the kettlebell and throws it to the other. 
This is how juggling looks like https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKSK6agrUac
What troubles me is that if blisters burst, can a desease be transmitted between jugglers?
I asked my coach, he said to me not to worry. Well, he is not a doctor anyway.
Could you help me understand whether there is any danger here?

A:

Absolutely - and burst blisters are the least of your concerns.
Just take a look at this article:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/25/well/family/when-athletes-share-infections.html
"Wrestling and rugby are sufficiently well-known for skin-to-skin transfer that there are herpes virus skin infections actually named for them, Herpes gladiatorum and Herpes rugbiorum (also known as “scrum pox”). “Herpes can shut down a whole team,” Dr. Rice said; wrestlers need “regular skin checks before tournaments,” looking for herpes, impetigo and ringworm, and treating problems so the athletes can compete. Prophylactic medications can help prevent herpes recurrences.
Among bacterial skin infections, community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, has caused many infections among high school and college athletes. MRSA has been a major issue in professional sports as well, particularly football, with several N.F.L. teams having had to deal with outbreaks. These skin infections can be extremely serious, as can streptococcal skin infections, so identifying and treating the lesions is really important for the individual athlete’s health, as well as for containing possible spread.
Athletes are also vulnerable to fungal skin infections, like Tinea corporis, or ringworm, not to mention athlete’s foot (Tinea pedis) and jock itch (Tinea cruris), two fungal infections whose popular names also reflect their tendency to hang around locker rooms. The fungal pathogens can be transmitted, skin to skin, but also by towels and contaminated surfaces.

