Q:

Why are Novel Coronavirus anitbody tests disparaged?

The Novel Coronavirus antibody test has been around since February 2020 when it was invented at a Chinese University. It can measure both IgM to show infection in progress and IgG to indicate full immunity. It is disparaged because it is only 94.4% accurate.
The Detroit News however reports the "gold standard" PCR test is only 90% effective. People walked around town with false negatives when they were really positive. So why only use PCR tests and never IgM / IgG tests?
I would feel more comfortable with both tests. First the daily 15 minute finger prick blood testto see if IgM develops followed by hospital / lab PCR test. Then after positive PCR self isolate. Then after negative PCR test continue to self isolate until daily 15 minute finger prick blood test shows IgG. I think it's too early in the war to disparage either test but would point out the 15 minute finger prick blood test is cheap and doesn't drain limited healthcare resources.
It would be interesting to run the same blood sample on all the IgM / IgG test devices and compare results. It would also be interesting to send swabs from same suspect to multiple PCR test labs see how they stack up. Ones that don't agree with the majority either have a better test or failed and could be subject to government oversight.
IgM results will show up (I think I read) whilst suspect is asymptomatic. If we want to win this war in three months instead of three years like the Spanish Flu, we need to pull out all the stops. But the question remains, why are IgM / IgG tests (antibody tests) frowned upon?

A:

Summary: they are not yet sufficiently well validated (and many are not working sufficiently well) to be used for mass testing.
For mass tests, 

of the kind you describe, we need high sensitivity very early into the disease
of any kind, we need false positive rate (1 - specificity) to be well below the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 positive people, otherwise we'll mostly find false positives the positive predcitive value (i.e. probability that you are really positive given that the test said so) would be too low to be of practical use: we'd want this to eventually conclude who is immune.

See also: Why are people with COVID-19 symptoms being denied tests in the US?

It would be interesting to run the same blood sample on all the IgM / IgG test devices and compare results

This is what 
https://covidtestingproject.org/ does, comparing 10 commercially available rapid antibody tests for SARS-CoV-2  and 2 ELISA tests: an in-house one of the group and a commercial one.
Manuscript (pre peer-review)

I would feel more comfortable with both tests. First the daily 15 minute finger prick blood testto see if IgM develops followed by hospital / lab PCR test. Then after positive PCR self isolate. Then after negative PCR test continue to self isolate until daily 15 minute finger prick blood test shows IgG. 

Unfortunately, the covid testing project data shows IGM (like IGG) not being very sensitive at the onset of symptoms: IGM sensitivity reaches 60 - 85 % (point estimates for the various tests) around day 11 - 15 after onset of symptoms for all but one test that never gets above 38 % sensitivity. 
So the antibody tests including IGM kick in basically only after PCR testing for current infection is done: PCR for virus RNA and antibody testing are thus for different time windows.
The scenario that you could do a rapid test to check whether you can safely visit the grandparents or other vulnerable persons is thus not going to work with these rapid tests.
A glance at the individual test results suggests:

that (as one may expect) there is a trade-off between sensitivity and specificity, at least to some extent.
This may not be a big problem, since we could choose more sensitive or more specific antibody tests according to the purpose of testing. (E.g. for a Corona-Antibody Passport, a highly specific test would be appropriate. For epidemiologic studies one may choose a different trade-off, but one would still need a sensible relationship between expected prevalence and specificity.)  
high correlation between the misclassified cases, i.e. the false negative and false positive samples tend to be the same across the tests.
This has the important consequence that the possibility to improve overall accuracy by combining tests from different manufacturers is limited.

One important concern with the antibody tests is whether they show cross-sensitivity to the corona viruses that circulate since years and cause only normal harmless colds (I did not find studies on antibody prevalence for those).  Unfortunately, the data so far includes only 4 such samples (of which some show low non-zero scores for some of the tests). Even for a test that correctly recognizes all four of them as negative for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, the 95 % credible interval for specificity in this subgroup is only "better than 55 %". In other words, we cannot really rely [yet] on the tests in this particular respect.
Also, since local prevalence of such corona virus strains may vary, it is not clear whether a test specificity can be directly used for populations on other continents.

