Q:

Is standing apart 2m an appropriate Social Distancing measure for choirs

In our choir, we are discussing measures to slow the spread of the novel Coronavirus in our community. However, I lack understanding about how the virus spreads in a closed room. The German Public Health authority recommends "Social distancing" of 1-2m.
However, in a choir, many people are singing all the time on the same location. Singing also produce respiratory droplets [src1] and I don't know how long those droplets stay infective. 

[src1] states that droplets dry out within 2m. Are Coronaviruses only infective while suspended in these droplets?
Given the long exposition of the people to each other and the long duration of singing, are the recommendations of Social Distancing applicable to choirs?

A:

I don't understand any choir being compatible with any definition of social distancing.  If the German Govt is asking you to practice social distancing it means meeting another person at a distance.  You can not continue your choir.

What is social distancing?
Social distancing measures are steps you can take to reduce the social interaction between people. This will help reduce the transmission of coronavirus (COVID-19).
They are:
Avoid contact with someone who is displaying symptoms of coronavirus (COVID-19). These symptoms include high temperature and/or new and continuous cough
Avoid non-essential use of public transport, varying your travel times to avoid rush hour, when possible
Work from home, where possible. Your employer should support you to do this. Please refer to employer guidance for more information
Avoid large gatherings, and gatherings in smaller public spaces such as pubs, cinemas, restaurants, theatres, bars, clubs
Avoid gatherings with friends and family. Keep in touch using remote technology such as phone, internet, and social media
Use telephone or online services to contact your GP or other essential services

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-guidance-on-social-distancing-and-for-vulnerable-people/guidance-on-social-distancing-for-everyone-in-the-uk-and-protecting-older-people-and-vulnerable-adults

