Q:

Does "rapariga" have a pejorative connotation in ptPT?

In ptBR, "rapariga" is primarily used as a synonym for "concubina", "amante" or "meretriz" (Aurélio) and I often heard it when I was a child, during the 1960s. Nowadays it is certainly outdated and few people use it. Then again, when I visit Portugal I hear it and don't perceive any pejorative meaning.  Depending on context, can it mean "meretriz" or "concubina" in ptPT?
ps - Even though "meretriz" comes as number 4 definition in "Aurelio Online", I always heard it as a pejorative. 

A:

(this answer describes European usage, since that's what you ask about)
You have two questions there:

whether it can mean "prostitute" and
whether it has a pejorative connotation.

For instance, prostituta or meretriz just mean "prostitute" and have little or no negative connotation, whereas puta and (to a lesser extent) rameira do have a negative connotation and (generally) also mean "prostitute". If you wanted to use a pejorative word for someone sexually promiscuous but that's not a prostitute, you could use galdéria ou puta.
But in the case of rapariga, the answer is no to both -- it doesn't have a pejorative connotation and it doesn't mean "female prostitute".
(I was going to say its usage is comparable to moça -- which is a bit old-fashioned in Portugal  --, but then Priberam lists it as being a synonym for meretriz in Brazil; it seems every word for "girl" means prostitute in Brazil :) ).
The word for girl that we in Portugal generally use to refer to prostitutes is menina, and even then it needs to be clear from the context (e.g. "ir às meninas") and it doesn't have a pejorative connotation (it's actually euphemistic).

A:

Just to try to clear some of the confusion with the dictionary definitions...

Aurélio
rapariga
[De rapaz, mas de formação obsc.]
Substantivo feminino.

P. us. no Brasil Mulher nova; moça: [...]
P. us. no Brasil Adolescente do sexo feminino.
Lus. Moça do campo
Bras. N. N.E. MG GO Amante² (6) ou concubina.
Bras. N. N.E. MG GO Meretriz. [...]

Priberam
ra·pa·ri·ga
(origem obscura)
substantivo feminino

Mulher nova. =JOVEM, MOÇA
Mulher entre a infância e a adolescência. = MOÇA
Menina pequena.
[Brasil]  Meretriz.

It appears that according to the ptPT dictionary Priberam, the pejorative usage is restricted to Brazil. (The Dicionário do Aurélio you link to is based on the ptPT Dicionário Priberam and not on the ptBR Dicionário Aurélio.)
Moreover, the ptBR dictionary Aurélio is more precise about where in Brazil rapariga is used pejoratively: primarily in the North (AC, AP, AM, PA, RO, RR, TO) and North-East (AL, BA, CE, MA, PB, PE, PI, RN, SE) regions, together with the states of Minas Gerais (MG) and Goiás (GO). That is, here:

(image adapted from SVG file on Wikimedia)
In other areas of Brazil it can also be used to mean "young woman" or "female adolescent", but this usage is rare (P. us. no Brasil = Pouco usado no Brasil).

tl;dr

Does “rapariga” have a pejorative connotation in ptPT?

No, rapariga does not have a pejorative connotation in ptPT.

ps - Even though "meretriz" comes as number 4 definition in "Aurelio Online", I always heard it as a pejorative.

This online dictionary "Dicionário do Aurélio" doesn't have anything to do with Aurélio, but is likely based on the ptPT dictionary "Priberam", so one shouldn't expect it to give definitions pertaining to Brazilian Portuguese.

