Q:

Accentuation rules in Brazilian Portuguese - PEde vs peDI

I speak Spanish as a foreign language. There, I am used to a few rules governing which syllables are stressed, and if a word somehow deviates, an explicit accent is used.
I'm learning (Brazilian) Portuguese right now, and things seem different. There are some rules, but there seem to be many exceptions, things seem kind of random to me at this point. For example, take these two words:
pede (3. person Presente) and pedi (1. person Pretérito Perfeito)
I learned that the stressed syllables (marked with capital letters) are PEde and peDI. But these words are almost identical: 4 letters, 2 syllables, both end with a vowel, no accents, and yet, one stresses the first syllable, the other stresses the second. In Spanish, the second word would need to be written 'pedí' for the last syllable to be the stressed one.
Does it have something to do with the tense? Are rules for verbs in the present and past tenses different? What about the other tenses? Would anybody have any helpful links with more information?
EDIT: This has already been answered below, but I've just recently found this video which explains the most basic rules (including words ending with 'i', among others): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQH-Xv9i7aw&t=129s

A:

In Portuguese, the spelling and accent marks fully specify which syllables are stressed. You don't need to look at any other context; the spelling is enough to be sure of the stress. What you're missing is that while the rules for Portuguese are similar to Spanish, they have some differences, too. Two of these differences have to do with "i"s and "u"s at the end of words. As someone who's learned some Portuguese and a little Spanish, both as foreign languages, I try to remember these as "opposites", where Portuguese does the opposite from Spanish, and vice versa. In both languages, this is special to the letters "u" and "i", and does not apply at all to other vowel letters, even in cases where other letters might make similar sounds.
In both languages, as you probably know, you can add an acute accent to "force" the stress onto a certain syllable, but if not shown anywhere, there are rules for the "default" syllable to take the stress.
"u" or "i" at the end of a word: takes the stress by default in Portuguese, but not in Spanish. So we write "Peru" in Portuguese, and "Perú" in Spanish, for the same pronunciation "pe-RU". If we had wanted to say "PE-ru" instead, that would be written "Péru" (or "Pero") in Portuguese, and "Peru" in Spanish.
Word ending in another vowel, with "u" or "i" immediately before it, like "-io" or "-ua": in Portuguese, this is the second-to-last syllable, so it takes the stress like most second-to-last syllables do. In Spanish, there is a special rule where the stress can "skip" over it to the third-to-last syllable. So we write "Mário e Maria" in Portuguese, but "Mario y María" in Spanish, with the same stress pattern. Same with "água" (PT) and "agua" (ES).
The rules for stress in Portuguese words are officially described in the "Acordo Ortográfico da Lingua Portuguesa" (1990). Personally I find that hard to read. There's a special jargon used for stress patterns in Portuguese that I've had a difficult time getting used to, because I first learned grammar in another language (English). But all the rules are in there.

A:

In Portuguese, if no accent is present and the last syllable is CONSONANT + i, then the word is oxytone. Oxytone means the last syllable is the tonic one. It is quite rare to see an accent in words ending in CONSONANT + i, and when so, they are mostly foreign. Words ending in -ei are not uncommon.

per-di
vi
sa-ci
safári (from English)

Unless an accent is present, a word ending in CONSONANT + e is paroxytone. Paroxytone means the penultimate (second to last) word is the tonic one.

Pe-de
Vi-ve
do-en-te
ên-fa-se
ja-ca-ré

