Q:

When to use the different words that mean to use or put on clothing? veste/ calçamos / usa / visto / bota

I learned Portuguese from Portugal. Now doing the Duolingo Portuguese course, it is heavily influenced by Brazil.
I am getting destroyed by the lessons that deal with clothing. I always get the 'to dress / to wear' verb wrong.
How can I know when it is appropriate to use vestir vs calçar vs usar?

A:

I am Brazilian from São Paulo. I say it because I have the impression that this may change from place to place, even only inside Brazil.
Basically, the word vestir means to dress; ex.: eu vou vestir um vestido lindíssimo! = I'll dress a very beautiful dress. As in English, one can dress a baby: Vesti o bebê pro inverno = I dressed the baby for the winter. The verb vestir can also be pronominal if with no object: Ele se vestiram bem = They dressed (up) well. I believe one could say eles vestiram bem, but it sounds weird, at least for me, unless there's an object omitted. The verb has other meanings, but that's the basics and the other meanings are similar or figurative. Two notes: the verb is irregular in the present of the first person singular indicative: visto instead of vesto; also in the present of the subjunctive: vista, vistas, vistamos, vistais and vistam. The second note is that one doesn't veste a shoe or a sock.
The word calçar means to put on. According to the dictionary, one can calçar trousers or gloves, but I have only seen it being used for things put on one's foot/feet, like a shoe or a boot and maybe socks. As with vestir, one can calçar someone; ex.: só preciso calçar o meu filho e já vamos = I just need to put the shoes on my son, and then we go. Idem, it can be pronominal: Você se calçou bem = You put on (some) good shoes (non-literal translation). Interesting that you can say “calça o cone” or “calça o slime”.
The word usar means to use; for clothes, one could translate it to have on; ex.: eu vou usar aquela camisa que cê me deu na festa amanhã = I'll use that shirt you gave me in the party tomorrow, Eu 'to' usando uma camisa da minha avó = I have on a shirt of my grandmother.
To summarize: vestir is irregualar and means to dress, calçar means to put a thing on your foot, and usar means to have on or to use.

