Q:

pack of cigarettes, carton of cigarettes

I am studying how to say pack of cigarettes and carton of cigarettes in Brazilian Portuguese.
Here is what I already have:
Image of pack of cigarettes
Suggestions: pacote de cigarros, maço de cigarros, carteira de cigarros
Image of carton of cigarettes
Suggestions: pacotes de cigarros, pacote de maços de cigarro
Could you please help me to finish it?

A:

A pack of cigarettes is a maço de cigarros (see maço in Aulete), and a carton is a pacote. These words are used both in Brasil and Portugal. Examples of actual usage:

Um pacote com dez maços de cigarros da marca que gosta, que no Brasil sai por R$ 67, custa R$ 150 na Alemanha. [Globo.com]
Cada caixa de cigarros continha 50 pacotes de 10 maços. No total foram apreendidos mais de 117 mil maços de cigarros avaliados em R$100 mil pela polícia. [ZH Notícias]

Now, pacote (Aulete 1) is a very general word; its nearest English equivalent is package (Oxford Learner's). In the two examples above it is very clear what the pacote is, but without clear context people might be unsure. For instance in the title of this article in Tempo, —“Pacote de cigarro terá novo aviso sobre riscos do fumo”—pacote appears to mean maço. So if the context is not very clear you may want to say pacote de maços de cigarros.

A:

Portuguese
Em português de Portugal (pt-PT), o mais usado, pelo menos no norte, é "tabaco"
(tobacco) em vez de "cigarros" e "volume" em vez de "pacote":

maço de tabaco   (pack of cigarettes)
volume de tabaco (carton of cigarettes)

Fica a resposta como complemento às outras em pt-BR.

English
In European Portuguese we mostly use "tabaco"(tobacco) instead of "cigarros".
We say "maço de tabaco" when we want to refer a pack of cigarettes, and we say "volume de tabaco" when we want to refer a carton of cigarettes:

maço de tabaco   (pack of cigarettes)
volume de tabaco (carton of cigarettes)

If I wanted to ask you for a cigarette I would say: "Tens tabaco? Podes me arranjar um?".
This answer is a complement to the Brazilian Portuguese answers.

