Q:

Why is the name "Jesus" not used in the Portuguese Language?

In many Spanish-speaking South American countries it is common to name a child (especially a boy) "Jesus". However, we never (I never) see this in the Portuguese speaking country (Brazil). I find this a bit odd because it seems that most SA countries are equally devout to Christianity, so I don't think it's a devotion issue. Does anyone think it has to do with the language? Or just culture?

A:

Brazilian Institue for Geography and Statistics (IBGE, in the Portuguese acronym) has a very good site that shows the frequency and distribution of personal names troughout the country.
Jesus is not a very common name, being in position 319 of the most common boy names, and having more than 35.000 people being named after (including more than 2.000 girls!), but definitely it is used to name boys. 
As for myself, I used to work for years with a guy named Jesus. This name is also used as a surname, like the former goalkeeper of the Brazilian National Soccer Team Dida de Jesus.
All in all it seems to me that your perception is rather a personal one, as there are thousands of Jesus living in Brazil.

A:

Answering the "why" for why it isn't largely used, and adding to what gmauch said, the reason is more closely related to culture (or more precisely, religion), in which, based to my experience and living among such people, it's not many people that find naming their son as "Jesus" something much proper to do, either by:

The parents not being religious (either atheists or non-practicing religious);
Being religious and not considering proper to name their own son with the same name of the one they worship (in case of the parents being protestants);
The fact that it may create an uncomfortable symbolism that the child's father is God with his son Jesus;
Simply because it isn't a name that the parents like (just like what happens with any other name). 

So far, I met 2 "Jesuses" and heard of 4+ other, but I agree that it's a very uncommon name in Brazil, compared to the most common ones.

