Q:

"até porque" - How can we express exactly the same in English?

“até porque” (or “até mesmo porque”) is often used colloquially in ptBR and its nearest synonym would be “inclusive porque”. To me, it's a set phrase and idiom ("até" has one meaning, "porque" has another meaning, and the two words together work with a different meaning.) and as Artefacto mentioned in his answer, the phrase usually introduces an afterthought and is also common in ptPT. 
I was trying to translate it  into English but couldn’t find a word or phrase that expressed exactly the same. I thought of quite a few phrases but didn’t like any. “Even because” sounds like a poor choice to me.  “Also because” isn't a set phrase and doesn’t seem to convey exactly the same. 
Examples of "até porque" and "até mesmo porque" in Portuguese:

Eu já disse que teu livro não está comigo.   Não levei comigo, podes ter certeza.  Até porque eu não tenho nenhum interesse em filosofia.
Não acredito que tenha sido o João.  Ele não faria isso.  Até mesmo porque ele também foi prejudicado.

How can we convey exactly the same meaning in English?

A:

In the examples you give, I would choose especially because (or especially since).

I've already said I don't have the book. You can be sure I haven't taken it with me. Especially because I have no interest in Philosophy.
I don't believe João has done it. He wouldn't do that. Especially since he was also harmed.

Other options, slightly different: more so because, not least because.
I do get the feeling that these expressions are somewhat stronger than "até porque", which can introduce 1) an afterthought with 2) something more of a justification for what was said before rather than exactly a cause. But I'm not a native English speaker and, well, there's no such thing as a perfect translation.
Note that especially because also has more literal meanings, where it cannot be translated to até porque: "I really liked it, especially because I'd never seen anything like it" (giving the main particular reason why you liked it). Here you would just say especialmente porque in Portuguese.

A:

This is the kind of thing that varies quite a bit from one region to another.  I would tend to say "especially considering", such as:

I've already said that your book is not with me. I didn't take it with me, you can be sure, especially considering I don't even have any interest in philosophy.
I don't believe it was John. He wouldn't do that, especially considering he was also harmed.

