Q:

What is the translation for "over-ordering"?

I know that in the sentence:

The reduction of “over-ordering” was great for our results!

"over-ordering" can be translated as "Encomenda excessiva" but what if we are talking about over-ordering food at a McDonalds?
As in I go to MacDonals and I order some food. After eating I would feel overfilled, thus I could say:

I over-ordered

A:

TL;DR
Instead of saying that you over-ordered you say that you bought too much, example:

Comprei comida demais no MacDonalds (I bought too much food at MacDonalds)

1. Definition and usage of to order (encomendar) in portuguese
The problem is that the word "encomenda" usually implies a lapse of time between the buy and the usage/consumption of an item. See the definitions at priberam

en·co·men·dar - Conjugar verbo transitivo

Mandar fazer.

Encarregar de fazer ou dizer (alguma coisa).

Proceder à encomendação de.

Nomear (pároco encomendado). verbo pronominal

Entregar-se (à protecção de alguém).

In fact you may take that a step further and say that a delivery is expected, or that the person needs to pick it up.
This happens more frequently over the phone, or internet. It can also happen at the shop when the item is not available, or takes time to prepare, consider for example a pizza.
Let's consider the following examples.

Encomendei leitão para o jantar. (I ordered piglet for dinner)
Encomendei frango, mas vou buscá-lo á loja. (I ordered chicken, but I am picking it up at the shop)
Quero encomendar uma pizza para o jantar. (I want to order a pizza for the dinner)

2. An item that you are buying right now is not a "encomenda" it's a "compra"
In the situations we purchase an item and have it handed out in that moment we would prefer the usage of compra(r).

Eu comprei um relógio. (I bought a watch)

So over-ordering food in MacDonalds would translate as follows:

Comprei demasiada comida no MacDonalds (I bought too much food in MacDonalds)

3. You can use the same concept with encomenda.

Encomendei demasiado leitão. (I over-ordered piglet)

Notice however, that act of over-ordering happened in the past in such cenario. It couldn't really happen in the future, unless you are over-ordering on purpose.

Vou encomendar muito leitão (I am going to over-order piglet)

4. Over-ordering in financial context
In a financial context, the usage of "over-ordering" could be translated as "encomenda excessiva", as noted in the title. The following sentence

We reduced over-ordering by 30% compared to last year

Could be translated as follows

Reduzimos as encomendas excessivas por 30%, em comparação com o ano anterior

