Q:

Space or no space before punctuation?

Será esta uma pergunta simples?
Será esta uma pergunta simples ?

Should there be a space (as in French typography) or no space (as in English typography) before punctuation marks? (E.g. before a question mark ?, colon :, semicolon ;, closing quotation marks «.)
I see both used frequently.

A:

English:
We don't add spaces before punctuation in Portuguese, so it should be: 
Será esta uma pergunta simples?

We do add them after most punctuation, like this:
Será esta uma pergunta simples? Não.

By the way, since you mentioned quotes, it's worth saying that in (brazilian, afaik) Portuguese we also use the same quotation marks as English: either straight quotes " and ' or curly open “ ‘ and close  ” ’ quotes, unlike French's Guillmet « ».

Português:
Não se adiciona espaços antes de pontuação em português, logo o correto é
Será esta uma pergunta simples?

Mas o espaço deve ser adicionado após as pontuações. Por exemplo: 
Será esta uma pergunta simples? Não.

Por sinal, já que falou-se em aspas, é válido dizer que em português, no Brasil, utilizamos as mesmas aspas do inglês: tanto aspas neutras " e ' quanto curvas de abertura “ ‘ e fechamento  ” ’, diferentemente do Guillmet utilizado em francês: « ».

A:

No space before, mandatory space after (if it is not the end of the text). Using space before punctuation is just wrong in Portuguese. This applies for all the cases that you cited: question marks, colons, semicolons and closing quotation marks. Further, it also applies to exclamation marks, periods and closing parenthesis and brackets.
The only exception is that closing parenthesis, brackets and quotation marks immediately followed by another punctuation are not not immediately following spaces, they should be immediately followed by another punctuation.
For opening parenthesis, brackets and quotation marks, there should be no space after them and the space before is mandatory.
So those are correctly punctuated:

Será que esta é uma pergunta simples? Acredito que sim! Pois bem, aqui vamos seguir [mais um] exemplo de um texto (em língua portuguesa, é claro): Tem gente que diz que a língua portuguesa é "simples", mas de fato, "simples" ela não é!

Those are not correctly punctuated:

Será que esta é uma pergunta simples ? Acredito que sim !Pois bem,aqui vamos seguir [ mais um ]exemplo de um texto( em língua portuguesa , é claro ) : Tem gente que diz que a língua portuguesa é " simples" , mas de fato ,"simples "ela não é !

However you are likely to see some very poorly-punctuated text in the internet. The reason is because many people are very lazy and careless when writing in Portuguese. You will also note that very poorly-punctuated texts also frequently features a lot of grotesque grammatical and spelling errors and is poorly-structured, because they are generally written carelessly or in hurry.

A:

The style of punctuation has changed throughout time.  Originally, it was quite random, but basically punctuation was generally defined as having a space on either side, but for spacing reasons, could always lose it if necessary on either side.  
Things eventually standardized a bit and so we get to the 18th century with this scan from the 1717 edition of A fenix renascida:

Notice how all punctuation gets a full space (or more!) around them, including colons and commas but not the period.  Even the parentheses got them:

But then later, things changed.  Here is a picture from the XXX edition of Machado de Assis's (scan from p. 42, "Uns braços")

As you can see, while there is not a full space preceding the question mark and the exclamation mark, there is a thin space that is used.   On the other hand, there is not any additional space (in comparison to modern usage) around the semicolon or colon.  Looking through books, I can find the extra space in front of semicolons, exclamation marks, question marks, and close-quotations (and after open-quotations) up to 1920s without any problem.  (after that, Google Books can't let me search them as easily due to copyright restrictions).
Nowadays, though, it's pretty clear you likely won't ever see extra space on either side of punctuation marks unless a publisher is intentionally trying to follow a French (or similar) style.  

