Q:

Meaning of "que" in sentences like "Que nenhuma família comece..."?

I am a Catholic, and recently I had wonderful opportunities to listen to hymns in Brazilian Catholic mass. 
I love their music (and of course, themselves too!), and so it has occurred to me
that I might try to understand the meanings of their
songs, learning their language on my own.
So here is one question about the song Oração pela familia.
In this song, I see many instances of the word que. For instance, 

Que nenhuma familia comece em qualquer de repente

My question is, what role does this que play? 
Does it work like, say, the word may in May God bless you?

A:

You’re on the right track. I'll start with simpler sentences:

Que Deus te abençoe = May God bless you

but that que does not translate as may. It translates as the conjunction that, as in:

Eu desejo que Deus te abençoe = I wish that God shall bless you

It just so happens that in Portuguese you can express a wish that something shall happen, starting the sentence with the conjunction que, and omitting eu desejo. Note that this is just to explain the meaning of that que; I am not claiming that sentences like que Deus te abençoe arose as shortened versions of eu desejo que… 
You don’t use this structure for all types of wishes. It is used mostly for things outside your control, as if you were appealing to higher power to make it so, as in:

Que eles sejam muito felizes (may they be very happy)
  Que consigas tudo o que desejas (may you achieve all you desire)
  Que cheguem todos bem (may you all arrive safely)

It can be used for commands or exhortations as well. Again, to understand the que you can imagine that there is a eu ordeno missing―eu ordeno que = I command that:

Que ninguém mexa nestes papéis! (let no one touch these papers!)
  Que ninguém desanime! (let no one lose heart!)
  Que haja luz! (Genesis 1:3, NTLH ; let there be light!)

The lines in the song are a combination of wish and exhortation:

Que nenhuma família comece em qualquer de repente =
  May/let no family start in some “all-of-a-sudden” (out of an impulse or some “contingency”)

In many such sentences you actually can drop the que: Que Deus de abençoe = Deus te abençoe, and que haja luz = haja luz. But often, if you drop the que, it will sound better if you place the verb before the subject. You could do that with most, if not all, verses in the song:

E que os filhos conheçam a força que brota do amor! = E conheçam os filhos a força que brota do amor! (may/let the children know the strength that comes out of love!)

