Q:

Difference between “cozinheiro,” “chefe”, etc

I have encountered several different terms for a cook or chef, and I'm curious what the differences are when I should use each one.
Some terms I've seen:

chefe
cozinheiro
cozinheiro-chefe
chefe de cozinha

A:

In short cozinheiro means cook in general, whereas the other terms broadly mean head cook. Avoid chefe out of clear context though, as the word will likely be misunderstood for its widespread, unrelated, meaning of ‘head person, leader’. Let's go into the details now.
Cozinheiro (Aulete) is the standard Portuguese word for ‘cook’, related to cozinhar (Aulete), ‘to cook’, and cozinha, ‘kitchen’. It is used both for professional cooks and anyone who can cook. So you can say of non-professional cooks things like:

O pai é que é o cozinheiro lá em casa [dad is the one who cooks at home]
Não sou mau cozinheiro [I’m not a bad cook]
Ah! hoje tu é que és o cozinheiro [Ah! you are the cook today; you’re the one cooking today]

Chefe (Aulete) generally means a person in a position of leadership or command, and is widely used in a variety of contexts: the person in charge of a group of workers, chefe de estado (head of state), chefe de estação (station master), chefe da tribo (chief of the tribe), chefe do movimento (the movement leader), and so on and so forth. Aulete lists seven different leadership-related meanings for chefe, and Houaiss (Lisboa, 2003) lists eleven. It can be used as an adjective too: enfermeiro-chefe (head nurse).
So chefe de cozinha or cozinheiro-chefe mean what the word combination suggests: a professional cook in charge of a team of cooks and kitchen assistants. For instance you find this short job description for cozinheiro-chefe at the Brazilian Ministry of Labour:

Organiza, coordena e controla o serviço de cozinha em restaurantes, hotéis, clubes, hospitais, indústrias e outros estabelecimentos do gênero, elaborando cardápios, orientando e verificando a execução das receitas e zelando pela ordem e higiene do local, para assegurar bom atendimento aos comensais.

This article at InfoEscola describes chefe de cozinha in the same way.
Chefe appears with the same meaning as chefe de cozinha and cozinheiro chefe in two Portugal-based online dictionaries: Priberam and Infopédia. It does not appear with any cooking-related meaning in Brazil-based Aulete or Michaelis; neither does it in Houaiss (Lisboa, 2003) or Academia das Ciências de Lisboa (Lisboa, 2008). Houaiss does include the Gallicism chef though:

grande cozinheiro encarregado da direção da cozinha de um restaurante, um hotel, uma residência, notáveis pela qualidade da alimentação

My feeling is that chefe in this sense is a recent adaptation of chef. I would be cautious about using it out of clear context, as it will be easily misunderstood, given the widespread use of chefe in its general meaning. So if asked what you do for a living you answer, “sou um chefe,” people will likely ask, “chefe de quê?” And if I hear someone saying, “o (meu) chefe é uma besta,” even if they’re dressed as a cook, I would think they were talking about their boss, most likely not a cook.
On a quick look around the web, it looks as though chef is used a lot more than chefe when used alone (i.e. not in chefe de cozinha): Google returned 360 occurrences of chefs conceituados against 191 chefes conceituados (and some of the latter may not relate to cooking). I’ve seen a couple of chefe used as a title for a cook though, as in Chefe Silva, a renowned Portuguese  cook.
I also get the feeling that chefe or chef, as often chefe the cozinha, places more emphasis on sophistication than cozinheiro-chefe. Even chefe the cozinha appears to be more recent than cozinheiro-chefe (it appears on Google Books in 1969 only, whereas cozinheiro-chefe can be found in abundance from the 1910s), so being more associated with the culture of celebrity cooks.

