Q:

Use of the arroba in Portuguese to mean "attention"

I am trying to understand the use of the arroba in colloquial Spanish and Portuguese. From a related post in which I asked about the written expression:
@advertencia

in the Spanish SE, the response seemed to be that it was a slang way to denote a threat, sort of like an exclamation point ("Warning!"), but most of the respondents seem to be unaware of it and one from Spain said it was not used this way in Spain at all.
What about Brazil? Is the arroba used to indicate emphasis in colloquial Portuguese as used in Brazil?

A:

I've never, ever seen anyone using the @ sign with that intention. A lengthy search on the most popular social networks also did not yield any results (in fact, using @ on them has proved itself quite problematic).
The only two reasonably common colloquial usages of this sign are:

For mentions to another individual, as it is usual in English-speaking countries (@Tyler Durden);
For gender-neutral nouns and adjectives, since most of them in Portuguese are gendered. This is a rather recent issue raised by modern feminists, for political reasons. Even amongst them, this habit is not unanimous, and many of them oppose it. From the Manual para o Uso Não Sexista da Linguagem:

Enquanto a linguagem continuar carregada de estereótipos, não convém
  dissimular a visibilidade das mulheres. Por isso é importante evitar
  as barras diagonais: ”oferece-se trabalho a costureira/o”. Não se
  devem usar parênteses “buscamos um (a) advogado (a)”. Nesse mesmo
  sentido é preciso eliminar os símbolos que não são legíveis ou que não
  é verdadeiramente representação do feminino: querid@s amig@s ou todxs
  juntxs.

A rough translation would be:

While the language remains loaded with stereotypes, it is not
  appropriate to conceal women visibility. Therefore, it is important to
  avoid slashes: "waiter/ress needed". On the same page, it is also
  essential to remove signs that are either unreadable, or not a true
  representation of women: "@he" or "xhe".

Keep in mind this book is not condoned by most linguists and authorities in Brazil, and it is merely meant as a guide for activists and the general population. 
Whenever Brazilians feel the need to emphasize something in written colloquial language (assuming bold, italic, colored, and larger font sizes are unavailable), they'll either CAPITALIZE IT or !!! spam exclamation marks !!!. Using the @ sign with this goal would not be understood by the majority of the population, and would most likely go unnoticed.

