Q:

How to say “let's” in Portuguese?

I had the same question in Spanish SE and since I've heard that Spanish and Portuguese are closely related sister languages but they may differ in details  

Sister language 
Comparison of Portuguese and Spanish 
The differences between Spanish and Portuguese

I decided to ask it here, too. Then:  
I wanna translate the following into Portuguese.  

Let's make a website for remote sensing and photogrammetry real. Let's all press "commit" button!  

I've been searching around for a while but seems that there is no equivalent for let's in Portuguese.
Some special cases like let's go, let's make it happen, let's make love have been asked on other forums but seems there is no special grammar like in English?

A:

The answer for the question is: "Vamos"

english == Let's make a website for remote sensing and photogrammetry real. Let's all press "commit" button!
Portuguese == Vamos fazer um site de sensoriamento e fotogrametria remota. Todo mundo apertando o botão "Commit"!
let's go == Vamos lá
let's make it happen == Vamos fazer com que aconteça
let's make love == Vamos fazer amor

A:

Like in Spanish, in European Portuguese we say «vamos» to the meaning of «let's»

Vamos fazer um website... Vamos todos clicar em "commit"

And the other examples:

vamos lá!
vamos fazer com que aconteça!
vamos fazer amor!

A:

Literal or literate translation
Let's go, for example, it is a contraction for let us go.
In this sense the literal translation in Portuguese is simply:

Deixemo-nos ir

Though, no-one would say that in the daily life, but that is strictly the exact translation.
Therefore the literate translations for

let's go
let's make it happen
let's make love

might be, considering you can use the imperative tense in the second person of the plural form (the one that corresponds to we):

deixemo-nos ir
deixemos que aconteça
façamos amor

Simple translation
As other have said, the common translation for let's go might be simply:

Vamos
Vamos lá
Bora lá (slang)

Pay attention that this verb tense vamos is not conjugated in the simple present form, but in the imperative form.
Hence the simple translations for those three expressions might be:

vamos
vamos fazê-lo
vamos fazer amor

