Q:

Use of past imperfect v. progressive past (gerund)

I recently moved to Brazil and am trying to learn Portuguese.
The one thing, that I'm curious about is the imperfect past (“fazia”) v. continuous past (“estava fazendo”).
I understand the basic rules, including that the imperfect is for repetitive  actions, habits etc., but there’s one type of situation that confuses me: which tense to use.
On the wiki, the description of the imperfect had: “For instance, we would NOT use the imperfect for the sentence ‘I ate an apple’ because the action has finished. However, the sentence ‘I was eating an apple’ describes something that was happening at a moment in time.”
So, when I'm referring to a process from the past, such as in the dialogue “What were you doing — I  was sleeping”, would it be “Eu dormia”, “Eu estava dormindo” or “Eu dormir”?
Because it was an ongoing process, is the imperfect grammatically correct and would people use it here, in Brazil?

A:

OK, in some cases, it is just like English:
(by the way, what I say re the past continuous (estava fazendo, applies to Iberian Portuguese forms: estava a fazer, too.)

I was sleeping when he arrived.

Eu estava dormindo quando ele chegou.

I was eating an apple when I choked.

Eu estava comendo uma maçã quando engasguei. [verb: engasgar].

In other words, one action is ongoing when another occurs. BUT the continuous past is used in both languages the same way: there is another thing that occurs or that is implied as occurring. So, if I say to you: O que que você estava fazendo? Is "What were you doing?" and in English and Portuguese there is another action or one implied such as "quando cheguei", "when I arrived".
Here's the issue:

Eu dormia muito durante os primeiros meses da pandemia.

That dormia means the action kept going in the past during the first months of the pandemic. It can be translated into English two ways:

I slept a lot during the first months of the pandemic.
OR
I used to sleep a lot during the pandemic. [not great sounding in English here.

Let's try another one:

Eu dormia muito quando era estudante.

I slept a lot when I was a student. Or: I used to sleep a lot when I was a student.

The translation of the imperfect in Portuguese is either simple past or used to in English. That's what is tricky.
So, if you are still at the "translation stage" of thinking in English and then saying it in Portuguese, you have to decide if the verb means something that was or was not a once off.

I slept a lot when I was a teenager.
If your meaning is I used to sleep, use Eu dormia muito quando era adolescente.
I slept a lot last month.
Probably not "used to sleep" here, use: Eu dormi muito o mês pasado.

So when you think something with a simple past in English, think about whether the meaning you actually want to convey is: used to [verb].
You will get the hang of it in time.

