Q:

What is an equivalent Portuguese expression for "actions speak louder than words"?

What is an equivalent Portuguese expression for the phrase "actions speak louder than words"? (reference) This phrase is often used to in relation to someone's unfulfilled promises.
Example 1:

A: I'll come tonight.
B: You said that last night, and the night before.  Actions speak louder than words.

Example 2: He has many great ideas, but what good are they?  Actions speak louder than words.

A:

You can have multiple variants for that expression, but I believe the word atos instead of ações is more commonly used:

actions worth more than words: atos valem mais que palavras (it seems this expression is already regarded as a
  Portuguese proverb);
actions weight more than words: atos pesam mais que palavras;
actions are more significant/remarkable than words: atos são mais significantes/notáveis que palavras;
actions are preferable to words: atos são preferíveis a palavras
actions speak louder than words: atos falam mais alto que palavras
attitudes speak more than words: atitudes falam mais que palavras

None of these are wrong grammatically, but the most commonly used in Portuguese seems to be the one associated to the worth of actions. The definite articles os and as can be omitted in any of these expressions (as in English).

A:

In terms of popular expressions, there's one (Brazilian portuguese) that can be used with the opposite meaning, which is Falar da boca pra fora. It means something like Speak from the mouth out. As you can imagine, it's only applicable in situation involving what the person says, so only example #1. It could be translated/adapted as:

A: Eu irei esta noite.
B: Você falou a mesma coisa na noite passada, e na anterior. Você só fala da boca pra fora.

Because of the different construction, the text has to be adapted. Still, I think this is closer to what you would hear in Brazil. Precisely, the expression means that despite saying something, the person doesn't truly believe/mean it and/or plan to do it.

A:

A equivalent expression is As ações valem mais que as palavras, although I don't think it to be very common to say this. 

