Q:

Which Greek deities do not have an "equivalent" in the Roman pantheon and vice versa?

Although this might be considered a list based questions the full answer's validity will not change with time as there was a finite list of Greek and Roman deities and that will not change in the future. 
Which Greek deities do not have an "equivalent" in the Roman pantheon and vice versa?

A:

The gods that I know-
ROMAN

Bellona - Roman goddess of war
Lupa- Roman wolf goddess
Janus- 2 headed Roman god
Pomona- god of plentiful

GREEK

Achelois - One of the Greek moon goddesses.
Achelous - The Greek patron god of the Achelous river.
Alastor - Greek god of family feuds. (ikr)
Alcyone - One of the seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione. (greek. is she a goddess?)
Alectrona - Early Greek goddess of the sun.
Antheia - Goddess of gardens, flowers, swamps, and marshes.
Astraea - The Star Maiden - a goddess of justice, included in Virgo and Libra mythologies.
Até - Goddess of mischief.
Bia - The goddess of force.
Brizo - Protector of Mariners.
Celaeno - The name of a wife of Poseidon.
Dinlas - Guardian of the ancient city of Lamark, where wounded heroes could heal after battle.
Doris - A Sea Nymph, mother of the Nereids. (guess this counts as a goddess)
Eireisone - The deity who embodied the sacred ceremonial olive branch.
Iris - Goddess of rainbows.
Khione - The goddess of snow and daughter of the North Wind (Boreas).
Kratos - A god of strength and power.
Merope - One of the seven Pleiades, married to king Sisyphos. (goddess or not?)
Morpheus - God of dreams and sleep.
Plutus - God of wealth.
Pricus - The immortal father of sea-goats, made into the Capricorn constellation.
Styx - A Naiad who was the first to aid Zeus in the Titan war. (Not to be confused with the river Styx).
Zelus - The god of zeal, rivalry, and jealousy.

Titans:

Atlas - The Primordial Titan who carried the world on his back.
Metis - Titan goddess of wisdom.
Oceanus - Titan god of the ocean.
Pallas - A giant who was one of the ancient Titan gods of war. (?)

If you think the muses are gods then those too. 
Source:
http://www.gods-and-monsters.com/list-of-greek-gods-goddesses.html

A:

Orcus is a Roman-specific deity. He's the god of Demonic Torment of damned souls. If he was Greek, he'd have worked in the Fields of Punishment.

