Q:

What was the explanation in Greek mythology for the absence of their deities?

The most well-known religions of the developed world teach about an all-powerful, transcendental God, existing in a state far beyond our understanding of space and time, who will come at the end of the world but until then doesn't interfere too much or too visibly, therefore the question of the missing physical appearances of God in current times either doesn't come up at all, or has a well-established canonical answer.
However, in Greek mythology the deities were more human, actually more like superpowered humans with human ambitions, and they personally walked the Earth, took part in human wars, and personally visited the temples dedicated to them.
What was the explanation for the ancient Greeks, for example in the time between Homer and Herodotus, why they don't see any giants, immortals, centaurs, fauns etc. running around, why doesn't Dionysus show up for a big party, and why doesn't anyone since many generations remember seeing Artemis hunting in the nearby forests. 
I'm sure if Herodotus had encountered anyone of the Greek pantheon or any of the mythical creatures in person (or if he heard enough claims of others having done so), he would have written about it, so it must have been an obvious fact even for his contemporaries that their mythological figures don't (or at least no longer) behave as they did in the myths.
I'm looking for an "in-universe" explanation, as I have a rough general knowledge about ancient Greek mythology/history, but I don't remember having seen any such explanation. Maybe there is one, and I just missed it.
I'm not interested in speculation, but in real sources. Was there any indication in the myths or any written records by philosophers or historians why the supernatural creatures are missing? In that time they still had temples where they had active services for the gods which, according to the myths, often, and visibly, physically visited their temples and human settlements. 

A:

I'm pretty convinced that the answer is: they were not absent (or, at least, Greeks did not consider them absent).
First clue, the infamous trick that Peisistratos did in order to gain popularity among Athenians: he found a tall, young, pretty lady, dressed her as Athena and put her on his chariot. They say he pretended he could not see her but, in the end, the result was that he could spread the rumour that Athena herself came to Athens to put he crown on the head of Athens's true ruler.
This story strongly suggests that Athenians of the age thought that it was possible, one day, as they were walking, to see a god or a goddess in front of them.
There are other stories as well, e.g. when in Cyme (Asia Minor) the people asked the oracle of Apollo in Didyma about whether they should provide sanctuary to a rebel from Lydia named Pactyas, there was an intervention from Aristodicus after which "the voice of the god was heard" (Herodotus, Clio)
Second clue, I've read a few old folk stories of Greece (like the ones collected by N. Politis), stories about fairies and spirits etc. which proved clearly enough that Greeks could actually see supernatural entities until the 1950's (or thought they saw). Some of these stories have a similarity with ancient greek mythology, but we are not discussing this right now. :)
One mention I found about an absent god, is in Lucianus's Timon (I'm not sure if this is the play) where the leading character cries out to Zeus "...unless you're dead, as Cretans believe." (Though some believe that Cretans worshiped Zeus as a ressurecting god.)

A:

There is a surprisingly modern collective response—or rather, range of responses—to this in ancient times. The 3 options listed below define a spectrum which could be described as moving from least to medium to most "in-universe."  
1. Those myths and legends featuring mind-blowingly extraordinary stuff, such as the gods' trysts with humans, are just fictitious yarns with which the poets think to amuse themselves. 
Much like at present day, there were philosophers who, perceiving themselves as more learned than the generally more illiterate populace, did not much share the classical mythographers' enthusiasm regarding the stories of rather human-like deities colliding with monsters and heroes in the realms of ordinary mortals.
In Miracle and Natural Law in Graeco-Roman and Early Christian Thought, Robert M. Grant1 lays out Lucian of Samosata's position on the matter (on pp. 71-72). 

In his Lover of Lies Lucian vigorously attacks the "deceivers
  of antiquity"—Herodotus, Ctesias (the author of the fantastic
  Persica), and the poets, including Homer. They tell such stories as the castration of Uranus (such stories were often under attack), the
  bonds of the giants, the metamorphoses of Zeus, and so on. These are
  "dreadful and portentous myths". In opposition to stories of divine
  healings Lucian claims that those who tell them and defend them are
  reasoning from false premises; they "drive in a nail with a nail";
  they cannot prove the presence of divine activity. To this objection
  his opponents reply that disbelief in their stories implies disbelief
  in the gods. Lucian answers that on the contrary he worships the gods
  and takes note of their healings, which are actually effected by
  medicines and physicians. Asclepius himself healed men in the same
  way.

Grant is careful to note, however, that in Lucian's time, the 100s AD, this writer was unique for having a perspective as stark as this. For a philosophical viewpoint in this same vein, posited centuries before Lucian, see the section Centaurs below. 
2. There is a kernel of truth in these otherwise incredible fictions, but the real deal needs to be filtered out of the silliness surrounding this beeswax. Some of these things happened and some of these creatures existed but not necessarily in the manner related to us by those mythographers. 
Oh, and people these days are rascals and reprobates [see more below]! 
In the Description of Greece 8.2.4-7, Pausanias offers his opinion on the issue by way of his visit to Arkadia [Arcadia]. Lykaon [Lycaon], one of Arkadia's earliest kings, is supposed to have been turned into a wolf by his own grandfather, none other than Zeus, after the god had visited his house for a meal:

For the men of those days, because of their righteousness and
  piety, were guests of the gods, eating at the same board; the good
  were openly honored by the gods, and sinners were openly visited with
  their wrath. As a matter of fact, in those days men were changed to
  gods, who down to the present day have honours paid to them—Aristaios
  [Aristaeus], Britomartis of Crete, Herakles [Heracles] the son of Alkmene,
  Amphiaraos the son of Oikles, and besides these Polydeukes
  [Polydeuces] and Kastor [Castor].
So one might believe that Lykaon was turned into a
  beast, and Niobe, the daughter of Tantalos, into a stone. But at the
  present time, when sin has grown to such a height and has been
  spreading over every land and every city, no longer do men turn into
  gods, except in the flattering words addressed to despots, and the
  wrath of the gods is reserved until the sinners have departed to the
  next world.
All through the ages, many events that have occurred in the past,
  and even some that occur today, have been generally discredited
  because of the lies built up on a foundation of fact. It is said, for
  instance, that ever since the time of Lykaon a man has changed into a
  wolf at the sacrifice to Zeus Lykaios [Lycaeus], but that the change
  is not for life; if, when he is a wolf, he abstains from human flesh,
  after nine years he becomes a man again, but if he tastes human flesh
  he remains a beast for ever.
Similarly too it is said that Niobe on Mount Sipylos sheds tears
  in the season of summer. I have also heard that the griffins have
  spots like the leopard, and that the Tritons speak with human voice,
  though others say that they blow through a shell that has been bored.
  Those who like to listen to the miraculous are themselves apt to add
  to the marvel, and so they ruin truth by mixing it with
  falsehood.

In his poem Phainomena, from four hundred years prior to Pausanias, Aratus expands on this idea of human wickedness resulting in the disappearance of the gods. This divine departure is based on a prediction made thereof by Hesiod four hundred years before Aratus, in Hesiod's own poem Works and Days. For more detail on that, see my MoreStories~inUniverse Answer.  
3. Absence of the deities?! What're you on about? Without a doubt I saw one recently. And yes, since you bring him up, it was, in fact, Dionysus.
The gods' escape from the world was definitely not the view concerning the behaviour of the deities in the popular culture of the period in question, neither in the Hellenistic period nor in Roman times.
This is so much so the case that a philosopher contemporaneous with both Lucian of Samosata and Pausanias—who argues that Zeus being so unmistakably human-like as depicted in the arts is absurd—seems to be, ironically, the most explicit source of Roman-era sightings of Greek gods, whom he himself claims to have beheld. According to Grant (p. 69): 

A later Middle Platonist, Maximus of Tyre (c. 180), is equally
  confused. On the one hand, he expresses his belief in divine
  omnipotence and proves it by the story that Zeus once tripled the
  length of a night. He states that in his own time Asclepius is working
  cures, and tells of sailors who heard and saw the god Dionysus,
  although other sailors only heard him. He himself has seen the
  Dioscuri {Kastor and Polydeukes, mentioned in the Pausanias quote above}, as well as Asclepius, "not in a dream", and Heracles, "a real appearance". He firmly believes in the activity of demons {meaning something more like the Roman genii in this
  case}. On the other hand the Dioscuri whom he saw were shining stars
  (this makes his testimony difficult to evaluate), and he rejects the
  poets' pictures of the gods, which are "credible because of their
  charm, but incredible because of their paradoxical nature". Other
  stories from the paradoxographical literature are "difficult to
  believe", and therefore contain an allegorical meaning.
(With
  my emphases and my {notes})

THEREFORE NOT ABSENT
The explanation back then was variegated in a quite similar way to questions like these about deities and their activities now: some take them for granted (moreover reporting experiences therewith), and some are selectively skeptical, while others throw them out almost altogether.
The writings and ruminations of the philosophers tend to occupy mostly the timeframe between Herodotus and the early centuries of the Christian era. For the most part, though, during the period you've asked about—between Homer and Herodotus—gods, heroes and cryptids abounded in the world of mortals. 
Dead Heroes Fighting Alongside Gods at the Battle of Marathon
The most vivid instance of the kind of divine appearances we're looking for is actually attested by Herodotus himself, writing about an event which is supposed to have taken place around the time he himself was born. Together with other ancient writers and artists he has a number of divinities featuring as participants in the 490 BC Battle of Marathon. 

The Athenian Pheidippides (a.k.a. Philippides), was sent by his fellow citizens to courier a message for help from the Spartans against the oncoming Persian military forces. A professional long-distance runner, Pheidippides completed the journey between Athens and Sparta the day after he had begun it. Upon his return from Sparta to the Athenians he reported to his fellows that, on his way, while rounding Mt Parthenion near Tegea, he had been accosted by the god Pan. The god sent him to ask the Athenians why they did not venerate him, even though he had always been a friend to them and evermore would be so. 
The word "panic" is derived from panikos, a seizure of frenzied fear specifically inspired by Pan. At the critical point in the Battle of Marathon, Pan appeared and instilled the Persians with panikos, thus costing them the victory. In gratitude the Athenians dedicated a temple to the god, performing annual sacrifices in his honour, as well as a Lampadephoria, a "torch-bearing" relay race.
Constructed around the same time in the Athenian Agora was a building called the Stoa Poikile, "Painted Porch." Contained therein was a mural portraying the Battle of Marathon, with a depiction of the goddess Athena and the god Herakles fighting alongside the Greeks against the Persians. Also present at the battle was the dead hero Theseus, who had been king of Athens at the time that Herakles was a mortal man. In the painting he is represented as emerging from the Underworld, returning from the dead. Marathon, a grandson of the sea-god Poseidon after whom the plain of Marathon was named before the time of Herakles and Theseus, was likewise present at the battle. 
Writing more than 500 years later, Plutarch says that: 

In after times... the Athenians were moved to honour Theseus as
  a demigod, especially by the fact that many of those who fought at
  Marathon against the Medes thought they saw an apparition of Theseus
  in arms rushing on in front of them against the Barbarians.

In Pausanias' description of the Stoa Poikile painting, he also mentions a certain mysterious man dressed in rustic attire who used a plough to kill many of the Persians before suddenly disappearing, never to be seen again. Upon searching for him the Athenians were instructed by an oracle to grant divine honours to Ekhetlaios [Echetlaeus], "[He] Of the Plough."

GIANTS
Regarding the giant boxer Kleomedes of Astypalaia, see the section on Superhuman Athletes in see my MoreStories~inUniverse Answer. 
The Makrobioi [Macrobii] and the Syrbotai [Syrbotae]
The modern term Ethiopia comes from Latin Aethiopia, which derives from Greek Aithiopia, which was a very fluid term in ancient times, often referring to the region that is now East African Sudan (rather than the country that is currently named Ethiopia) but sometimes to the entire African continent and even parts of Arabia and India, insomuch as these places were known to the Greeks.
In Homer's time there was believed to be, in Aithiopia, a nation of virtuous people who never died, dwelling in a land of endless summertime and enjoying the company of the Greek gods, who visited them for an annual feast.
Later on Herodotus would write of a group of Aithiopes ["Ethiopians"] called the Makrobioi, "Long-Lifers" or "Long-Lived" Ones, because their average lifespan was 120 years. They, he says, were the tallest, most beautiful people in the world. They were also so wealthy that they fettered their prisoners in chains of gold.
Pliny the Elder, a Roman writing in the 1st Century AD, says that in the vicinity of the Makrobioi lived an Aithiopian tribe called the Syrbotai, whose average height exceeded eight cubits (twelve feet). Krates of Pergamos, writing a couple of centuries previous to this, is Pliny's source for this people. If Herodotus is aware of the Syrbotai, for his statement about the Makrobioi to be consistent, it would have to mean that the Makrobioi are at least as tall as these 3.6m-tall giants, if not more so.
The Kynokephaloi (and the Saint Who Carried Christ)
Going back to the era of Homer, Hesiod writes of the Hemikynoi, "Half-Dogs," a proud race of Anubis-like people who had dogs' heads and dwelt in the same fluidly-defined region of "Aithiopia." Later on they were dubbed Kynokephaloi, "Dog-Heads," which the Romans Latinised into Cynocephali.
As the Roman Empire became increasingly Christianised, these creatures came to be perceived as devourers of human flesh. By this point they were associated with a region somewhere on the border of Libya and Egypt, from which they were called the Marmaritae and were even said to be gigantic monsters.
There are two main variant traditions about the legendary St Khristophoros [Christopher], the "Carrier of Khristos [Christ]." In both, he was a giant who lived during the reign of a Roman Emperor, either Decius (mid 200s AD) or Maximinus II Daia (early 300s AD). In the more culturally Latinised Western Christian tradition, Khristophoros was very anachronistically said to have been a Canaanite giant, one of the Anakim who are mentioned in the Torah. 
In the Eastern Orthodox tradition, which is more heavily influenced by Greek culture, Khristophoros belonged to the gigantic variety of the Kynokephaloi. A version of his tale says that he prayed to acquire a completely human form, and his prayer was answered, in which case he became the completely humanoid giant of the Western tradition. Nonetheless many Eastern religious icons depict him, as a full-fledged saint, still sporting his original canine features.

Down into the time of Augustinus Hipponensis [St Augustine], one of Khristophoros' fellow Africans, there was speculation about whether creatures like the Dog-Heads had human souls which could thus receive salvation. In the European imagination for centuries thereafter, this region of Africa was presumed to be inhabited by these Kynokephaloi, whom Hesiod says are the children of the earth-goddess Gaia either by Poseidon or by Zeus's Egyptian son Epaphos [Epaphus].
In Book 4 of his Historiai, Herodotus mentions the Kynokephaloi, locating them in the western portions of Libya together with some ordinary animals, as well as donkeys with horns, and headless people whose faces were in their chests. Pliny calls this headless tribe the Blemmyai [Blemmyae], citing Herodotus' contemporary Ktesias as his source for information on them. The Blemmyai became another favourite of mediaeval European folklore, although the same name was applied also to a nation of ordinary human nomads who occupied eastern Africa before the collapse of the Roman Empire.

IMMORTALS
Regarding the gods Pan and Herakles, and the goddess Athena, see the section Dead Heroes Fighting Alongside Gods at the Battle of Marathon above.
For more on Herakles, see #3, above, as well as the section Theagenes, Born Divine in my MoreStories~inUniverse Answer, as well as, in that same Answer, the section Euthymos, the Ghostbuster for the river-god Kaikinos [Caecinus].
For the god Asklepios [Asclepius] and the twin deities called the Dioskouroi [Dioscuri], see #3, above, again.
Regarding the gods Zeus Ammon and Apollo, see the section Semi-Divine Royalty also in the MoreStories~inUniverse Answer.
To speak especially technically, Herodotus does in fact mention "Immortals," Athanatoi, in the Historiai 7.31, but alright, to be fair, he is referring to an obviously mortal human military unit of the Achaemenid Empire, particularly under Khshayarsha [Xerxes] I the Great, a contingent whose number was always kept numbered at 10,000 men.  

CENTAURS
In The First Fossil Hunters: Paleontology in Greek and Roman Times, Adrienne Mayor2 (pp. 221-222) fleshes out the perspective of philosophers living during and after Herodotus' time:  

On Unbelievable Tales was written by a friend and follower of
  Aristotle known as Palaephatus (a pen name that roughly translates as
  "ancient tales")... 
Centaurs ... were a focus of tension between the logic of popular
  belief in marvels and philosophers' belief in immutable principles of
  nature. Myth accorded Centaurs the status of a viable species.
  Empedocles suggested that Centaur-like creatures once existed but died
  out as monsters unfit for survival; later, Aristotle and Lucretius
  vigorously denied that such hybrids could ever exist... 
Plunging into the Centaur debate, Palaephatus ... articulates a
  principle of unchanging species: "If there ever were such animals,
  then they would exist today." But not only does his statement
  contradict ancient knowledge that some real animals had gone extinct,
  his wording leaves the door open for relict Centaur "sightings" and
  atavistic births that would prove their existence in the past... And
  indeed, live Centaurs were reported in the Roman era.

An entire chapter entitled "Centaur Bones" offers more reports of live Centaur sightings. As part of it (pp. 239-240) says:

[H]ybrid beasts combining contradictory categories (including
  bird-mammal griffins of chapter 1) were singled out by the circle of
  orthodox natural philosophers as impossible. But while Aristotle, his
  follower Palaephatus, and Lucretius heaped scorn on the viability of
  mixed species, especially Centaurs, writers like Aelian, Phlegon of
  Tralles, and others kept an open mind about seemingly incredible
  creatures, allowing the interplay of imagination and skepticism to
  fill in the blanks of the unknown. Aelian, for example, wondered
  whether time and nature might really have produced populations of such
  strange creatures, just as the myths claimed. If Centaurs were
  actually once prevalent in certain places and not just figments of
  folklore, Aelian reasoned (echoing Empedocles) that they must have
  been at least a temporary fauna of the deep past.
Palaephatus' authoritative assertion in the fourth century
  B.C.—that if Centaurs ever did exist, then they would still be seen
  alive—was given literal expression in a rash of Centaur sightings in
  the Roman period. During the reign of Claudius (A.D. 41-54) officials
  in Arabia declared that a small herd of Centaurs still inhabited
  Saune, a remote mountain wilderness infested by poisonous plants.
  Despite the danger, one ... was captured and transported to Egypt as a
  gift for the emperor. The Egyptians fed the wild Centaur a traditional
  diet of raw meat, but it could not tolerate the change in altitude and
  perished. The Egyptians had the corpse embalmed and shipped to Rome,
  where the emperor Claudius exhibited the marvel in his palace. Pliny
  went with friends to see the spectacle: the Centaur was completely
  submerged in honey (a common preservative for transporting cadavers
  long distances)...
Nearly a century later, through the reign of nine emperors after
  Claudius, the embalmed Centaur of Saune could still be viewed, by
  special appointment, in the emperor Hadrian's imperial storehouse.
  Phlegon... who served on Hadrian's staff (A.D. 117-138), examined the
  marvel himself. The Centaur was a bit smaller than what one might
  expect from classical Greek art, he observed, but it had a fierce face
  and hairy arms and fingers. The human rib cage merged naturally with
  equine body and limbs, and its hooves were quite firm. 

Mayor herself is convinced that all these preserved remains were artistically contrived hoaxes.

SATYRS & AIGIPANĒS
Fauns are from Roman mythology. Since ancient times they have often been confused with Satyrs, who did not have goats' heads or legs, and were more humanoid (and barely had horns). The Roman fauns were more akin in appearance to the goat-headed, goat-legged gods Pan and Aigipan [Aegipan] (the latter of whom might merely be a form of the former) and the woodland sprites called Panēs [Pans], after the great Pan, and Aigipanēs [Aegipans], similarly after the great Aigipan. 

As in the preceding section, Mayor's book relates the issue quite well (pp. 236-237):

Pausanias remarked that a live wild Satyr from Libya was
  exhibited in Rome, and Plutarch described the capture of a Satyr in
  what is now Albania. In 83 B.C., the Roman commander Sulla was about
  to sail from Dyrrhacium to Italy when his soldiers surprised a Satyr
  asleep in a sacred meadow, a place where fire flowed from the ground.
  The creature looked just like Satyrs in art and drama, and, when
  captured and presented to the Roman commander, he uttered a harsh
  whinnying bleat.
Satyr sightings lasted into the early Christian era. Saint
  Jerome, a contemporary of Saint Augustine, stated that the emperor
  Constantine (d. A.D. 337) traveled to Antioch to view the remains of a
  Satyr that had been preserved in salt.

At the end of Endnote 8 to this chapter of the book (on p. 326), Mayor says that "Saint Augustine thought he saw a Satyr, according to Cuvier. Rudwick 1997, 233." 
Meanwhile Pliny's Natural History has this to say about Mt Atlas in Morocco:

At night, they say, it gleams with fires innumerable
  lighted up; it is then the scene of the gambols of the Aegipans and
  the Satyr crew, while it re-echoes with the notes of the flute and the
  pipe, and the clash of drums and cymbals. All this is what authors of
  high character have stated, in addition to the labours which Hercules
  [Herakles] and Perseus there experienced. The space which intervenes
  before you arrive at this mountain is immense, and the country quite
  unknown.

There is nonetheless an encounter with something which is described as both a Satyr and a faun by none other than Jerome, who says that the famous Egyptian hermit St Antony the Great was given roadside directions to an older monk named Paul of Thebes, first by a Centaur and then by a goatish humanoid. 
The second creature speaks to Antony and even acknowledges Christ as Lord, all while alluding to the Book of Psalms and the Epistle to the Romans! (And this goat-like beast-man can fly?) As it happens, Antony's response thereto provides what we could call a fourth explanation of the matter in question, or even a blend of all of the current 3.

Antony was amazed, and, thinking over what he had seen [the
  Centaur], went on his way. Before long in a small rocky valley shut in
  on all sides he saw a little man with a hooked snout, a horned
  forehead, and extremities like the feet of a goat. When he saw this,
  Antony, like a good soldier, seized the shield of faith and the helmet
  of hope: the creature nonetheless began to offer to him the fruit of
  the palm-trees to support him on his journey and, as it were, pledges of
  peace. Antony, perceiving this, stopped and asked who he was. The
  answer he received from him was this: 

I am a mortal being and one of those inhabitants of the desert
    whom the Gentiles, deluded by various forms of error, worship under the
    names of Fauns, Satyrs, and Incubi. I am sent to represent my tribe.
    We ask you on our behalf to entreat the favour of your Lord and ours,
    who, we have learned, came once to save the world, and "whose sound
    has gone forth into all the earth." 

As he uttered such words as these, the aged traveller's cheeks
  streamed with tears, the marks of his deep feeling, which he shed in
  the fullness of his joy. He rejoiced over the Glory of Christ and the
  destruction of Satan, and marvelling all the while that he could
  understand the Satyr's language, and striking the ground with his
  staff, he said:

Woe to you, Alexandria, who instead of God worships monsters!
    Woe to you, harlot city, into which have flowed together the demons of
    the whole world!
    What will you say now? Beasts speak of Christ, and
    you, instead of God, worship monsters! 

He had not finished speaking when, as if on wings, the wild
  creature fled away. Let no one scruple to believe this incident; its
  truth is supported by what took place when Constantine was on the
  throne, a matter of which the whole world was witness.
  - The Life of Paul the Hermit 8

Jerome goes on to describe the Satyr remains in Antioch, mentioned in the Mayor quote above, at the beginning of this section.

OTHER CREATURES
Encounters with mermen (who were called Tritons in Greek myth) and sea nymphs (typically Nereids, who were related to the Tritons via their common ancestor the sea-god Nereus) were as prevalent in Roman times as sightings of Centaurs and Satyrs.

Pliny says that a delegation from Olisipo (Lisbon) arrived in Rome to
  inform the emperor Tiberius that a Triton had been spotted in a cave
  by the sea. They also stated that a dying Nereid, covered with hair or
  fine scales even on the parts that looked human, appeared on the same
  shore. The governor of Gaul reported to Emperor Augustus a mass
  stranding of Nereids on the Atlantic coast, and Pliny himself heard
  from reliable sources that a Triton was sinking ships at night in the
  Gulf of Cadiz.
Triton remains were exhibited in Tanagra and Rome.
Mayor 2000: 231-232

Pliny says there was a breed of (really kool-sounding) horned, winged horses in Aethiopia which were called Pegasi. Aaron Atsma conjectures that these were descendants of Pegasus, the most famous winged horse of Greek myth, hence the name of the African variety of these animals.

By the way, during Herodotus' time and long after, gods were still siring offspring upon mortal women. For much more on that, see my MoreStories~inUniverse Answer.     

Notes
1. Grant, R.M. 1952. Miracle and Natural Law in Graeco-Roman and Early Christian Thought. Wipf & Stock, Eugene, OR.
2. Mayor, A. 2000. The First Fossil Hunters: Paleontology in Greek and Roman Times. Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ. 

A:

Another tack, extrapolated backwards from the innumerable churches and votive sites in the current Greek country side, where Mary and Nicolas and George sit in the church templon as a holy picture and are very much real for the devotees, from gold and silver offerings on the icons to great celebrations on the name day. Each site is really as a different deity, Mary gets an epithet of the site, and is specially celebrated. IMHO this is a continuation of the ancient greek religiosity. The temples turned into churches. (St Helias churches are on top of hills, for example, where the temples of Apollo-Helios were located, the association clear). Each house has a small iconostasis with a candle lit from the resurrection ceremony light once a year.
Here is the most popular prayer to God as Holy Spirit in current orthodox christianity:
Heavenly King
Heavenly King , 
Paraclete ,
the Spirit of truth ,
who is ubiquitous and 
permeates everything
the treasurer of goods
and the giver of life,
come and dwell in us
......
So the deity is present though only seen in the churches.
Extrapolating from the present religiosity to the ancient religiosity should not be a big step. The ancients had the statues, not icons, three dimensional representations of the gods, in full color, not the immaculate white of the underlying marble, but vivid color. The houses had the house altar. In a similar way with the present, their gods were with them in their everyday life, with the prayers and votive offerings,  the new dresses sewn for the name day, the processions. Their gods were interwoven with their life.
One could say that they had captured ( like a three dimensional photo)their gods to keep them in their societies. From this last it is evident that they gave a spiritual immaterial format to their gods in general. Again not different than the way saints and divinity  are  still currently seen.

