Q:

Is there a story on a goddess marrying a monster?

I am looking for a story on a goddess who married a monster.I remember reading the story a few years ago but I can't seem to remember it.In the story,a goddess marries a monster in order to stop him from being evil and terrorising people and be good instead.The goddess in the story is an Asian one,who is either from an Indian,Korean,Japanese or Chinese mythology (e.g. Buddhism,Taoism).I'm not sure what the monster was though,but I am preety sure it was either a king or a dragon.It possibly might have been both.Does anybody recognize the myth? Can you give me more info on the goddess and the monster , and a source where it is recorded?

A:

I suspect you're referring to Benzaiten, a Buddhist and Shinto Goddess. 
The linked Encyclopedia Britannica article mentions to her marriage to the dragon, and Britannica is generally considered a reputable source, however they don't provide citations, at least for this online article, so you may want to seek out the source material on your own to verify.
This site says: "A dragon once ravaged a village in Kanagawa. Benzaiten swooped down from heaven and engaged the dragon. She agreed to marry him, and by her influence, the dragon ceased his wicked ways, and peace returned to the region. The island of Enoshima rose up in the place in which the dragon's lair once rested."  
This comes with a big caveat that the references on that website are not reliable.  
However, my inclination is to trust this source: 
"The Legend of the Goddess and the 5-Headed Dragon"
Long ago there lived a 5-headed dragon. The dragon demanded sacrifices be made to him, caused floods, and rained down fire, committing one wicked act after another. In the year 552, the Heavens and the Earth suddenly began to shake and a goddess appeared above the clouds. Gradually, the clouds gave way to sunlight, and Enoshima was born. The Dragon immediately fell in love, and asked for the goddess' hand in marriage, but knowing of the wicked acts the Dragon had committed, the Goddess refused. Not prepared to give up, the Dragon vowed to mend his ways, and so the goddess (known as Benzaiten) agreed to marry him. On the shore opposite Enoshima lies "Dragon's Mouth Mountain". The Dragon turned into the mountain so as to watch over the goddess, even after death, and it is said that the Dragon still keeps watch over Enoshima today. Due to "The Legend of the Goddess and the 5-Headed Dragon", Enoshima is today famous as a spiritual site for marriage."

Note: If I get a chance to get my hands on some vetted source material for Japanese mythology, I'll return and make citations.  In the meantime, I hope this answer is helpful.

