Q:

What is the meaning of the star symbols appearing on seal VA 243?

Here is the picture of cylinder seal VA/243.

Image credits: Z. Sitchin
This seal was named like that because it is number 243 in the collection of the Vorderasiatische Museum in Berlin.
What is the correct meaning of the star symbol (including 11 dots around) shown below?

So in total 12 mysterious objects (I guess).
This is I guess explained in A Brief Analysis of Cylinder Seal VA 243, however it's still not clear for me.
And the star in the middle, is it our Sun or it's not?
If it's not, is it referring to some specific constellation?

A:

My name is Emerson C Velloso, and this is my archaeoastronomical contribution to Professor Michael S Heiser:
The man seated is Ninurta, He's not only the God of the Farmers and Plow, He is also the God of War, related to the planet Saturn!
The big star in the center is Saturn.

These Akkadian representations are not realistic, but only systematic... even so, the astronomical order is right: the planets on the ecliptic trajectory passes between Betelgeuse/Aldebaran and the Pleiades.

A:

Nope. Not even close (okay, a little bit).
According to my source, the symbol is actually a star (just one). It looks kinda confusing like a solar system or a Sun. To make a Sun, you must at least meet this regulation for this type of art:

The sun symbol always has either four arms plus wavy lines extending from a "ball" in the middle, or it is a ball with wavy lines.  VA 243 has no wavy lines.  It does not depict the sun.

In fact it is a star rather than our beloved Sun. As seen in the picture below, the picture you showed is a star as it has 6 - 8 points. This time it has 6 points. 

Caption: Below are examples of star symbols.  Stars could have 6, 7, or 8 pts in Sumero-Mesopotamian art (VA 243 has six):

So your picture is a star, not a constellation. It represents a star in the sky, even the dots are part of the star.

A:

Something I never see mentioned concerning this seal and the "solar system" is why only including Pluto makes no sense. Since you can't see all the planets with the naked eye, I believe the idea is that the information of our "correct" solar system was passed down by those posing as "gods". 
However, here lies my issue. If you do a simple Google search for dwarf planets, you can see others which are close in size to Pluto. Eris, for example is basically the same size. My inclination would be that any "correct" solar system provided to the ancients by otherworldly beings (let's assume for the sake of argument) would either list 8 (not counting the smaller "dwarf" planets) or at least 10 (Eris and Pluto) or up to 15 (with smaller, similarly sized dwarf planets). None of which correspond to the proposed "solar system model. 

