Q:

What is the origin of the akhlut's name?

The akhlut is a creature from Inuit myth, a monstrous wolf that can take the shape of an orca. However, I haven't been able to find this word in any reliable Inuktitut dictionaries (looking for akhlut, akłut, or ak&ut—since ł is hard to type on American keyboards, it's often written hl, lh, or &).
Where does this creature's name come from?

A:

Found two Yupik dictionaries but neither had 'akhlut'. Then found the article below:

http://offbeat.wikia.com/wiki/Akhlut
Akhlut
Other Names Kăk-whăn'-û-ghăt Kǐg-û-lu'-nǐk
Origin Yupik
Location Ice floes around the Bering Sea
Disposition Malevolent
Akhlut are shapeshifting spirits from Yupik myth. They appear as
  either orcas or as wolves, and live among ice floes around the Bering
  Strait. They are often depicted as a hybrid between an orca and a
  wolf.
Appearance   In the original folklore, akhlut were gigantic orcas who could shapeshift into equally massive wolves to hunt on land.[1]
  In traditional art they are usually depicted in mid transformation,
  with the features of both wolves and whales.[2] Most modern
  interpretations portray them as creatures that are perpetually half
  wolf, half orca rather than shapeshifters. They are generally
  amphibious. An occasional variant of the creature appears as a beluga
  whale, and can transform into a reindeer to traverse on land. It is
  unclear whether this variation is carnivorous or not.[2]
Behavior   Akhlut are known for their ferocity, and they hunt humans and animals alike. When hungry, they become wolves and run
  across the land searching for prey. Once they have eaten their fill,
  they return to the water and assume their orca forms once more.[3]
  Wolf tracks leading to or from the ocean are an indicator that the
  animal may be nearby.[1][2]
Anthropological information   Nelson (The Eskimo About Bering Strait) claims that the creature is called Kăk-whăn'-û-ghăt
  Kǐg-û-lu'-nǐk, and in orca form it is known as akh'-lut, and in wolf
  form as kǐg-û-lu’-nǐk.[2] These may be mistranslations or alternate
  dialects, as the central Yupik romanizations for "orca" and "wolf" are
  "arrlug" and "kegg'luner" respectively[4]. It's unclear what the word
  "Kăk-whăn'-û-ghăt" might mean. At any rate, it appears the name these
  creatures are most well known by is simply a corruption of the Yupik
  word for "orca".

