Q:

How are the internal organs of centaurs arranged?

My question is about the internal organs of this creature. How are these organs arranged? It is confusing, because it is basically a horse with its head replaced by a human upper body.
For example, if it has both the human and horse organs, that would mean it has multiple hearts, livers and two pairs of lungs.
Can someone explain how this creature works?

A:

You are essentially correct: If a centaur were real, it would have a lot of duplicate structures which don't make anatomical sense:

The answer, of course, is that centaurs are just as mythical as Pegasus (bird/horse cross), gryphons (lion/eagle cross), hippogriffs (eagle/horse cross), and jackalopes (jackrabbit/antelope cross). They looked cool.

A:

As Lauren Ipsum points out, this question is based on a questionable premise: that Greek mythological creatures were supposed to have "worked" anatomically.
I'm not an expert, so I can't say for sure, but I have never heard of any mythological explanation of centaur anatomy. Of course, many modern fantasy writers and mythological enthusiasts have come up with their own explanations, but I don't think those fall within the scope of this site (unless they have been influential enough to have passed into modern "folklore").
Some ancient accounts treat them as having partially divine ancestry (from Zeus), and of course Greek gods displayed many violations of conventional anatomy by being able to transform themselves and perform all kinds of physical feats that would be impossible for any living being in real life.
Some books about myths that I have read suggest that the image of the centaur was inspired by how non-equestrian cultures first perceived men on horseback. I forget where I first read this, but it is mentioned in the Theoi.com article on centaurs that I linked to below. Although this explanation is certainly speculative, I find it intriguing.
Ancient Greek depictions of centaurs show some anatomical variations: sometimes the foremost pair of legs are depicted as equine, but sometimes they are depicted as human legs.

"Bronze man and centaur", a mid-8th century B.C. Greek bronze statue
References:

Theoi.com, Greek Mythology >> Bestiary >> Centaurs (Kentauroi), Theoi Project © Copyright 2000 - 2017 Aaron J. Atsma, Netherlands & New Zealand

The Met Collection Records "Bronze man and centaur"

