Q:

Where did lizardmen come from?

Usually, fantasy creatures are easy to track back to mythology and folklore and there is only a handful I can't trace back. Of course, that can be because they're actually original, but oftentimes I feel like I've seen them before, and I can't grasp where. I mean, even for "clockwork" robots and automatons, you can look at Leonardo da Vinci's knight.
So, what lizardmen am I talking about? Well, here is a semi-rigid set of tropes:

Oftentimes very primitive, even stone-age primitive.
Live in deserts, jungles, or swamps
Are actually cold-blooded
Little sexual dimorphism in appearance
Once had a great civilization that's now gone
Eat humans
Hiss often

Now, you can take some away, but the fact that this set of characteristics even exists points to an origin point, or ground zero that I can't seem to find.
Elves have such a set too, their ground zero is Tolkien and probably the fertility gods of Norse mythology. Subsequent instances could be described in relation to ground zero. Even if they subverted it, they still had to subvert something.
So, where did lizardmen originate from?

Note: I'm not familiar with this site's tags, so please help!

A:

Egyptian mythology is a pretty good match.

primitive: the god Sobek is known from pre-dynastic texts. His name was used by several kings of the pre-dynastic era, and the oldest imagery of Sobek is from the bronze age.

environment: Sobek is associated with water, including the Nile and pools created by Nile flooding, which is where crocodiles reside to this day in Egypt.

cold-blooded: it is improbable that ancient civilizations could make this biological distinction. It is a fairly recent biological categorization.

sexual dimorphism: Egyptian mythology has similarly depicted female (part) crocodile deities like Ammit and Taweret.

eat humans: Ammit in the Book of the Dead devours the souls of the dead deemed unworthy. Sobek is, above all else, an aggressive and animalistic deity who lives up to the vicious reputation of his patron animal, the large and violent Nile crocodile/West African crocodile. Some of his common epithets betray this nature succinctly, the most notable of which being: "he who loves robbery", "he who eats while he also mates", and "pointed of teeth".

