Q:

What is the difference between a cockatrice and a basilisk?

What is the difference between a cockatrice and a basilisk? 
I have heard both described as a chicken's egg hatched under a toad, and that both are snake-like animals, and that both will turn you to stone if you look at them. Are they the same thing?

A:

My answer might not completely answer your question, but atleast would partially answer it. Some differences are as follows:

The cockatrice is dragon-like creature, or in short it is a dragon. However, the basilisk is a pure serpent, an have nothing to do with the dragon species.
The cockatrice can fly with the wings it has on it's back. But, a basilisk can't. The main reason being the point above.
Killing abilities: The cockatrice can kill it's enemy by breathing fire and touching them. The basilisk, however has only two modes. It is by either through it's death stare or like a regular snake attack (through it's poisoned fangs.)

And the main difference is the way it is born:
Your interpretation:

I have heard both described as a chicken's egg hatched under a toad

is wrong. This is how both of them are born:

The basilisk is hatched by a cockerel from the egg of a serpent or
  toad.
The cockatrice is hatched from a cockerel's "egg" incubated by a
  serpent or toad.

Sometimes, both of them are also considered as same. For instance, in this article from the Bullfinch's mythology:
CHAPTER XXXVI.
MODERN MONSTERS- THE PHOENIX- BASILISK- UNICORN -SALAMANDER states

There is an old saying that “everything has its enemy” – and the
  cockatrice quailed before the weasel. The basilisk might look daggers,
  the weasel cared not, but advanced boldly to the conflict. When
  bitten, the weasel retired for a moment to eat some rue, which was the
  only plant the basilisks could not wither, returned with renewed
  strength and soundness to the charge, and never left the enemy till he
  was stretched dead on the plain. The monster, too, as if conscious of
  the irregular way in which he came into the world, was supposed to
  have a great antipathy to a cock; and well he might, for as soon as he
  heard the cock crow he expired.

References: 
Wikipedia page on Basilisk
Wikipedia page on Cockatrice
Isodore of Seville (About the Basilisk)

