Q:

Why does Horagalles have a nail on his head?

According to Wikipedia, the Sami thunder god Horagalles was depicted with a nail or spike on the head:

Idols of Horagalles are made of wood and have a nail or spike and a piece of flint in the head. He has a hammer called Wetschera, Aijeke Wetschera, or Ajeke veċċera, "grandfather's hammer."
Horagalles. (2016, October 3). In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved 09:02, February 28, 2017, from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Horagalles&oldid=742335950

Why is that? What is the story of this unique feature?

A:

It may relate to some feature in Finnish cosmology, but one possible answer is may come by way of the Scandinavian god Thor. Horgalles' name is sometimes explained as a form of Thor karl, Old Man Thor, and he may have borrowed his nail from Thor's cult as well.
There are two references to god-nails, reginnaglar, in Scandinavian literature, one of which might explain Horgalles' nail:  

Thereafter Thorolf fared with fire through his land out from
  Staff-river in the west, and east to that river which is now called
  Thors-river, and settled his shipmates there. But he set up for
  himself a great house at Templewick which he called Templestead. There
  he let build a temple, and a mighty house it was. There was a door in
  the side-wall and nearer to one end thereof. Within the door stood the
  pillars of the high-seat, and nails were therein; they were called the
  Gods' nails. (Eyrbyggja saga)

One of the pillars was carved with an image of Thor, by the way, just to tie it up. Some scholars, such H.R.E. Davidson, connect the god-nails with they myth of how Thor got a whetstone embedded in his forehead while fighting a giant. (Gods and Myths of the Ancient Northmen: 78) She also suggests that the nails were used to strike sparks for fire in the temples. She quotes a late saga, Kjalnesinga saga, as saying that Thor's temple had a fire that was never allowed to go out. (Follow this link to learn more about needfires and how to start them.)

