Q:

Why do we call the pentagram a "star"?

First, I apologize if this is asked in the wrong place, but I'm finding it hard placing this question, which is this:

The symbol above is called a "star", but why?
I have read that the symbol predates the telescope, but stars do not look five-pointed to the naked eye. Possibly it was only called a star very recently, but perhaps the origins are much older and more mythological. If so, then maybe somebody here can clarify the issue for me, or at least point me in the right direction?

A:

This turned out to be interesting - thanks for the question.
Wiktionary - Etymology
From Middle English sterre, from Old English steorra (“star”), from Proto-Germanic *sternô, *sternǭ (“star”), from Proto-Indo-European *h₂stḗr (“star”).
Arabic: نَجْم‏‎ (ar) m (najm), نَجْمَة‏‎ f (najma), كَوْكَب‏‎ (kawkab)
Egyptian Arabic: نجمة‏‎ f (negma)
Egyptian: sbꜣ

Old High German: sterno
•   Gothic:  f (stairnō)
•   Greek: αστέρι (el) n (astéri), άστρο (el) n (ástro)
Ancient Greek: ἀστήρ m (astḗr), ἄστρον n (ástron)
•   Hebrew: כּוֹכַב‏‎ (he) m (kokháv)
•   Hindi: तारा (hi) m (tārā), सितारा (hi) m (sitārā)
•   Old Norse: stjarna f

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/mario-livio/the-five-pointed-star-as_b_6192742.html
Mario Livio
Astrophysicist
A pentagram appears on a jar dated to 3100 BCE, found north of Thebes in Egypt. The incision appears to have been done in one continuous motion,.... 
(Snip) Interestingly, pentagrams from the same period were found in Mesopotamia. Those included a five-pointed star on a tablet from Uruk, dated to about 3200 BCE; a design on a vase dated to 3000 BCE from Jemdet Nasr; and another design in spindle whorl from the same time, also from Jemdet Nasr.
(Snip) In Sumarian and Akkadian cuneiform texts, the meaning of the five-pointed star was the “regions of the inhabited world.” Thus, we can find it in sentences such as: “which are not the regions warmed by the brightness of your light.”
(Snip) Historian A. de la Fuÿe speculated that the pentagram could have originally been an anthropomorphic symbol of Hygeia, the Greek goddess of health (Figure 3). While the connection appears tenuous, it shows the level of interest that the five-pointed star has generated over the years.

https://goo.gl/CngUb6
Thoughout history stars have been represented in many different ways. One of the most common today is the 5 pointed star, but 4,6,7,8 and even more points have been used. Some cultures also represented stars more like they are seen in the sky, as dots, or small circles. The 5 pointed star might have originated from the way the Egyptians represented the star in hyroglypics. If you look at a really bright star sometime you might notice that it does appear to have lines coming out from it. These are called diffraction spikes and appear because of the way the light enters your eye which is a small circular hole. (Astronomers are very familiar with diffraction because it provides the fundamental limit to the detail we can make out in distant objects). I suspect that the ultimate origin of the pointed star is those spikes, although that's just an educated guess.

