Q:

Would the gods often take the form of another god?

Greek mythology is full of stories where gods would disguise themselves as humans, beasts or elements to deceive humans. Especially with Zeus, this appears to be a favourite plot element. A particularly interesting story of Hermes disguising as Phanes, the protogonos of the Orphic tradition, appears in Nonnus' Dionysiaca:

Here behind the many keys and seals of the palace allseeing Hera spied him with her infallible eyes, guarded by Mystis in that hidden corner of the house. Then she swore by the infernal water of after avenging Styx, that she would drown the house of Ino in a flood of innumerable woes. Indeed she would have destroyed the son of Zeus; but Hermes caught him up and carried him to the wooded ridge where Cybele dwelt. Moving fast, Hera ran swiftshoe on quick feet from high heaven; but he was before her, and assumed the eternal shape of firstborn Phanes. Hera in respect for the most ancient of the gods, gave him place and bowed before the radiance of the deceiving face, not knowing the borrowed shape for a fraud.
Nonnus, Dionysiaca, Book 9. Translated by Rouse, W H D. Loeb Classical Library Volumes 344, 354, 356. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press, 1940

The story of a god taking the form of another, mightier god is a departure from the pattern of Zeus transforming to one animal or another to impregnate his latest infatuation. This particular trick allowed Hermes to achieve an otherwise impossible task: to deceive the "allseeing" Hera, with her "infallible eyes".
However, fascinating as the story might be, it raises the question of what's stopping any god from talking the form of a mightier one and achieving whatever they want. Do we know of other stories of gods taking the form of another god? If so, did those stories limit the ability in any way?
Or is Nonnus' story just a piece of bad storytelling?

A:

It's not Greek, so it's not a complete answer to your question, but there is a parallel in the Sumerian story of Enlil and Ninlil.
Ninlil is a gorgeous woman (a dingir exactly, i.e. a Sumerian "god") who loves to bath in the river, but her mother Nunbarshegunu warns her about the god Enlil:

The river is Holy woman! [...] don't bath in it! [...] [Enlil] eye is
  bright, [...] he will look at you! [...] Straight away he will want to
  have sex, he will want to kiss.

Very obviously Ninlil still goes to bath in the river (This kind of theme is nowadays used in slasher movies). Enlil comes to see Ninlil and tries to have sex with her, but Ninlil refuses with poor excuses. The next time she bathes Enlil captures her and rapes her. When the other gods see what Enlil did they ask him to leave (a rare case when we see some kind of law and judgment in Sumerian text). But as Enlil is departing, Ninlil (the very first victim of the Stockholm syndrome) pursues him.
Enlil goes to the city's gatekeeper and takes his shape:

Enlil answered as the city gatekeeper: "My Lord has not talked to you
  with me at all, O loveliest one." [Ninlil then says]: "I will make
  clear my aim and explain my intent. You can fill my womb once it is
  empty. Enlil, lord of the land, has had sex with me! Just as Enlil is
  you lord, So am I your lady!"

The story keeps going with Enlil travelling to the god river Idkura. The same scene is repeating: Enlil takes Idkura appearance denied to Ninlil having seen Enlil and she proposes herself for free.
One last time Enlil goes to Siluigi (The Sumerian Charon) and we have the same scene: Enlil shapeshifts and Ninlil offers herself.
As a result of the sexual activities Ninlil will have Suen the moon god, Nergal and Ninazu, some war/underworld gods, and Enbilulu the god of irrigation (or something approaching).
You have here the usual ambiguous pattern of Sumerian stories. The text is not making clear if Ninlil knows Enlil is impersonating another god or if she is just promiscuous.
Translation taken from The literature of Ancient Sumer. You can find the same text in the ETCL.

