Q:

Why was the Worship of Zeus and his kin banned?

I read somewhere that before Christianity, the Greeks worshiped the seven Greek Gods and eventually it was outlawed or forbidden. 
My question is, Why was the Worship of Zeus and his kin banned?
I'm assuming there was a war somewhere in the answer and somewhere down the line, the people converted. 
(I understand if this gets closed, I looked to see if their was a duplicate. Didn't see one)

A:

Pagan religion was outlawed forcibly by Imperial Decree of his majesty Emperor Theodosius II.
The decree commanded the immediate closure of temples, oracles, schools etc that were even remotely connected to paganism. At some places of the empire, pogroms against anything pagan started directly after. They destroyed ancient temples, burnt 'pagan' books, closed the philosophy schools, banned gymnastics... They even attacked the tomb of Alexander the Great because he was pagan when he lived...

It is the very point where the period of 'Late Antiquity' ends, and the period of the 'Middle Ages' start. Next time you visit Greece or Italy and you see ruins of ancient temples, remember that most probably fanatic religious mobs turned them to ruins.

A:

Well, first of all, the Greeks had a polytheistic (pagan) society, which the Christians didn't have. They instead practiced monotheism. The Greeks never actually banned the practice of polytheism, but the Christians did. While the Christians were in the process of recruiting gentiles to Christianity, many people were still pagans.The Christians slowly recruited more and more people and there were less and less pagans in the world. Once Christianity became the religion of most societies, anyone, and I mean anyone, who was not Christian, was targeted, not only pagans. In a Christian society, if you weren't Christian, you were treated badly, and that meant the banning of polytheism. Now, there are modern pagans, but had they lived when Christians controlled most societies (they still technically do, but not in the same way they used to), they would most likely have been executed or forced to convert.
Christian religion control
More info on polytheism ban/end of Greco-Roman polytheism

