Q:

Is there a connection between Odin or Zeus and the Christian God?

Could the Norse Odin or the Greek Zeus be Christianity's "The Creator" and father of Jesus?

A:

It's interesting that the most common epithet of Zeus in Greek literature is not the form of the name beginning in "z", but the form equivalent to Dios.  (This is the same word root for god in the Romance languages of Europe.)  
You see the word as an adjective often in phrases like  καὶ δῖος Ἀχιλλεύς (kai dios Achilleus) "godlike Achilles", and even other deities might be described as divine (lowercase d), but only Zeus himself is referred to as Δῖος ("God" with the capital D).  
Some have linked the "seus" part of Jesus' name to Zeus, arguing that his original name was Joshua (ישוע Yeshua).  All are "King of Heaven" for their respective heavens, whether Olympus, Asgard or the Christian heaven.
Joseph Campbell might refer to Odin, Zeus and the Lord of Hosts as "sky fathers", and the depictions of all deities in art have certain characteristics such as the beard. 
This is no accident as Italian Renaissance art in particular was heavily influenced by Classical mythology at the peak of the power of the Catholic Church.  You can even find a direct merging of the two cosmologies in Dante's Inferno, which influences the Christian conception of the universe second only to the bible itself.
It is also worth noting that a well known epithet of Odin is the "Allfather" (Alfaðir), and that Zeus is called "Father of the Gods and Men".  In Christian sects that uphold the doctrine of the trinity, the creator is knows as "God the Father". 
The main distinction I see is that the polytheistic versions of these kings of heaven were only nigh-omniscient and/or nigh-omnipotent.  Specifically, they were the kings of their respective hills, but inferior to the singular or infinite nature of the Lord of Hosts.  

Note: Unlike Zeus, who is undying and eternal, though not omniscient nor omnipotent, Odin is mortal in the sense he dies at Ragnarök, swallowed whole by the wolf Fenrir.

