Q:

What is an Half Angel Half Demon?

I read in a Solomon Grimoire that there was a species of Angels called Half Angels Half Demons. I haven't found any other information on them. Does anybody know?

A:

The Grim Reaper is a possible candidate. He or She is more or less a “neutral” entity, who works for both God and the Devil. Doing his or her job. That’s the only creature (as far as I know) I can think of who could be considered as half way between an angel and a demon. This is thought of in the specific sense that neither an angel or demon can get away with the act of snatching a soul without incurring the wrath of either.
If you could tell us which grimoire it is we could search more specifically.
Mostly these creatures feature in videogames like Diablo called the Nephalem (which is a bastardization of Nephilim) or the Darksiders games in which 4 members of the Nephilim are parallel to the Four Horseman of the Apocalypse
All in all angels and demons are opposites. According to some sources they are exactly the same but the daemons/demons are corrupted angels who went down with Lucifer in his rebellion against the Creator.

Angels are considered to be good and demons are considered to be
evil.

Angels are good spirits and considered to be saviours of mankind
whereas demons are evil spirits who tempt mankind to indulge in evil
acts.

Angels are known to be protectors of the innocent and the faithful.

Angels are known to perform many tasks that include maintaining
order of the universe and also bridging the gap between mankind and
God.

The demons want utter chaos of the universe.

They are not protectors but only destructors.

They wish to widen the gap between human kind and God.

The angels impart love, kindness and brotherhood whereas demons
impart hatred and cruelty among mankind.

The demons believe in rebellion against God.

So putting these two entities together would be illogical.
I would really like a name or link to the grimoire and be proven wrong though. I have been searching some but have not found the specific mention. Given the right source I would be more than happy to search further.

