Q:

Which creatures from Grimms' tales come directly from German myth?

Trying to determine which creatures in the stories are based on German myth (i.e. things people actually believed in), and which were characters in cautionary tales or stories made up for entertainment (i.e. not believed in).  I figured it would be a shorter list to include the ones that are rather than the ones that aren't.
I am looking for examples of creatures that exist in the Grimm tales that are based on German myth.  
A good example of such a creature would be a dwarf, because dwarfs exist both in Grimm tales and in German myth.
An example of a creature that exists in Grimms' tales but does not exist in German myth is Hans from Hans my Hedgehog.  As far as I know, weird, half-hedgehog creatures did not exist in German myth.
Again, I'm only asking for the former.

A:

As pointed out by @Hamlet in their comments to your question, your definition of "myth" is not the one used by folklorists and other scholars. Your meaning would better fit the term "superstition".
If you read German, there is a ten volume dictionary of German superstitions, a scholarly work of many thousands of pages, which collects the superstitions held by German people in the first half of the 20th century, many of them of course of older origin and in tune with the superstitions featured in the Grimms' tales. The superstitions in this book are often of a medical kind (e.g. certain plants heal certain illnesses) or ritualistic (e.g. harvesting – or not – at full moon or catching the bride's flower bouquet).
The belief in dwarves predates the existence of a German nation and is Germanic in origin. Many of the tales collected by the Brothers Grimm are known to other peoples as well, and are not exclusively German at all. Taking your example, there are versions of the tale that the Grimms published under the name of Snow White from all over the world. This website lists many of these stories, some of them from Africa. The page gives a book as source that collects these tales, if you are interested. Similarly, dwarves (of the Germanic kind) can be found in tales from all over Middle and Northern Europe, and are not exclusive to the tales of the Brothers Grimm. And most certainly, the majority of the German people no longer believed in dwarves at the time the Grimms collected their tales. They are not part of German superstition, but part of Germanic myth (in the folklorist meaning of the word).
So, after all this rumination, what I think you are asking is which of the Grimms' tales contain references to Germanic myths. My answer would be: probably none of them, or only vaguely. Fairy tales are a different type of folktale than myths. Fairy tales are not tales about literal truths, but contain a moral in symbolized form. No one believed that there ever was a princess Snow White, but everyone (even today) believes in the underlying truth that diligence (exemplified in Snow White's service to the dwarves) and Snow White's other virtues will overcome evil in the end.

If this is not what you are asking, please edit your question to clarify.

