Q:

Did ancient myths center on deities because individualism was not valued?

Are there any books/essays/discussions about the idea that ancient cultures didn't value individualism (for a variety of reasons) like we do today, and so poetry, literature, and art were primarily about celebrating deities or deities interacting with archetypal humans, rather than so much of what we see from recent history (say the last two thousand or so years), where art works develop towards a lack of deity, even no deity at all, or any kind of super human interaction, instead featuring a story of everyday humanity?
Perhaps I'm misreading history, or misunderstanding much of mythology, but that seems to be my impression.  Thanks!

A:

The history of individualism is quite complex. But one of the interesting things about individualism was that it developed partially in tandem with developments in christian doctrine.
A modern "relic" of this is the idea of having a personal relationship with god. This is about as individualistic as you can get: everyone has their own, individual, personal connection. But at the same time, this idea involves the celebration of a deity. 
So no, I don't think it's fair or accurate to say that individualism and the belief in deities are incompatible. Furthermore, even if we assume that all "ancient cultures" believe in deities, I don't see how anyone can argue that this belief stems from a lack of individualism, given the history of the concept.
Some interesting sources on the subject (I haven't read all of them, but they all look interesting):
Dumont, L. (1986). Essays on individualism : Modern ideology in anthropological perspective. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Morris, C. (1972). The discovery of the individual, 1050-1200. (Church history outlines, 5). London: S.P.C.K. for the Church Historical Society.
Schooler, C.. (1990). The Individual in Japanese History: Parallels to and Divergences from the European Experience. Sociological Forum, 5(4), 569–594. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/684686
If you want something that's available for free online, again, my blog post is a good way to start.

A:

Perhaps for something to be mythology it needs some superhuman or extra-human element, otherwise it's classed as a story or tale?
For instance, I don't think I've seen the Tale of the Eloquent Peasant described as a myth. But it might fit as a tale of everyday humanity. 

