Q:

Who did Adam and Eve's son Cain marry?

According to Christian mythology, Adam and Eve were the first people created. So their children were living alone in the world. 
In Genesis 4:16-17 it says that Cain left Eden and went towards the east to live. There he met his wife and got married and had a child. Where did that woman come from? Weren't Adam and Eve the first people created? 

A:

To address the claim that Cain moved away and then found his wife, this simply isn't stated in the text.  Perhaps the confusion is on the phrasing.  Genesis 4:16-17 doesn't say that Cain met his wife in the land of Nod.  Here is the King James Version of those verses:

And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.  And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.

The phrase "knew his wife" is a construction used repeatedly in the King James translation.  "knew" here doesn't mean "met", it means "had sex with".  Later translations usually make this a bit more clear to the modern ear, using phrases like "made love to", instead.
As I understand it (and I'm not a scholar of Hebrew), לדעת has many meanings, including both having knowledge of, and having sexual congress with (possibly euphemistically). To me, the intended meaning seems clear here (not all people I meet conceive and bear my children, after all). And to the best of my knowledge there isn't any real debate of the correct interpretation of this passage. 
More discussion of this usage can be found on English Language & Usage:  Why did Old Testament scholars choose to employ “to know” in a sexual sense?
There is nothing that precludes Cain having already been married to one of his sisters at the time that he left for Nod, and that he brought her with him.

A:

Adam and Eve had many other unnamed sons and daughters besides Seth, Kain and Abel (Gen. 5:4). 
Marriage to a sister in the early stage of the human race was not considere wrong or unnatural. Even later on Abraham’s wife was his half-sister (20:12); also 24:4 and 28:2. God did not prohibit such marriages until the time of Moses when is was specifically stated it was against the law of God according to Lev. 18:9, 18:11, 20:17, and Deut. 27:22.
Because there were no human beings except those born of Adam and Eve, sibling marriages were a necessity. St Augustine says,

As, therefore, the human race, subsequently to the first marriage of the man who was made of dust, and his wife who was made out of his side, required the union of males and females in order that it might multiply, and as there were no human beings except those who had been born of these two, men took their sisters for wives,—an act which was as certainly dictated by necessity in these ancient days as afterwards it was condemned by the prohibitions of religion . . . and though it was quite allowable in the earliest ages of the human race to marry one’s sister, it is now abhorred as a thing which no circumstances could justify. (The City of God XV.16)

So Kain married a woman who was related to him by blood.
Source: Catholic

A:

Adam and Eve had more children; this is found in Genesis 5:4

And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters:

I found my answer on this Christian site. On that particular site it is argued that the woman Cain married had to be one of his sisters. They argue against the theory that God created other humans as well, saying that according to the Bible all men descended from Adam. (I'm still looking for an exact bible verse to say that, but it fits with what I've been taught).
The relationship would be incestual, but the command against incest appears in Leviticus - it is given long after the events in Genesis.

