Q:

God/Goddess of clones or duplicates

Is there any god/goddess who had the power of clones or represented them?
Like Dionysus is a god of wine and many other related things, is there a god of clones/duplicates/mirror images across any mythology? Even a monster or creature is ok.

A:

To answer your question if there is a god specifically for clones, the answer would be no.
Since there was no such thing as cloning in ancient times they did not have a deity or creature for it (just like there is no such thing as an ancient god of automobiles or smartphones).
Although some creatures and deities have the power to clone themselves a specific god for cloning does not exist. If you where to search for a duplicitous deity of creature the list would be substantially bigger.
The closest answer to be found is the Hindu Raktabīja

In Hindu mythology, Raktabīja was an Asura (loosely translated as
demon) who fought with Shumbha and Nishumbha against Goddess Durga and
Goddess Kali or Goddess Chamunda. Raktabīja had a boon that whenever a
drop of his blood fell on the ground, a duplicate Raktabīja would be
born at that spot (rakta=blood, bīja=seed; " He for whom each drop of
blood is a seed"). According to some sources, Raktabija was, in his
previous birth, Rambhasura, king of demons and the father of
Mahishasura.
The eighth chapter of the Devi Mahatmya, RaktabIja-vadh, focuses on
Ambika's battle with Raktabīja as part of her battle against the
Asuras Shumbha and Nishumbha, who had disenfranchised the gods from
heaven. Raktabīja was wounded, but drops of blood falling on the
ground created innumerable other Raktabījas, and Ambika and the
Matrikas were in difficulty.
At this point, the Goddess Kali joined
the battle, who stretched her tongue over the earth and licked up each
drop of blood pouring from Raktabīja's body while other goddesses
wounded him. Kali devoured his duplicates into her gaping mouth. This
form who drank the demon's blood is also called Raktheshwari.

Illustrated below is the Goddess Ambika Leading the Eight Mother Goddesses in Battle Against the Demon Raktabija. Notice Kali using her tongue to collect the dead duplicates of Raktabija while more are coming from the right.

