Q:

What God or Gods matches up the most with being the "God of Fortresses" mentioned in the Bible in Daniel 11:38?

It is mentioned in the Bible in the book of Daniel, Chapter 11 in verse 38, that the man who is called the little horn (who is to become the "antichrist" as Christians call him) will:

Daniel 11:38 (New International Version (NIV)):
"Instead of them, he will honor a god of fortresses; a god unknown to his ancestors he will honor with gold and silver, with precious stones and costly gifts."

The word translated "fortresses" according to Strong's Exhaustive Concordance (SEC) means:
https://www.biblestudytools.com/lexicons/hebrew/nas/maowz.html

(Stong's #4581):
Definition:
place or means of safety, protection, refuge, stronghold
place of safety, fastness, harbour, stronghold
refuge (of God) (fig.)
human protection (fig.)

In the next verse the same word (Strong's #4581) is used:

Daniel 11:39 (New International Version (NIV)):
"He will attack the mightiest fortresses with the help of a foreign god and will greatly honor those who acknowledge him. He will make them rulers over many people and will distribute the land at a price."

The Englishman's Hebrew Concordance of the Old Testament by George V. Wigram has for Strong's #4581  for Daniel 11:38 "shall he honour the God of forces: (marg. Mauzzim; or, munitions)" and for Daniel 11:39 "in the most strong holds (marg. fortresses of munitions)".
While that word may mean a fortified place, an acquaintance of mine who has, for decades, been self-taught in the Bible has stated that military power is ostensibly represented by the term fortresses, or forts in the modern vernacular and also that another, more modern meaning and intent of this metaphor "fort":

"...can also refer to vaults where massive amounts of precious metals, such as gold and silver, precious stones or jewels, and other valuables, including property deeds, are often stored in banks, the largest of which in the world is itself called a fort (Fort Knox)."

I've also read that temples can be included as places that stored treasure in ancient times (for example, in ancient Rome and ancient Greek), if that helps.
I'm curious what god or gods of all the mythologies matches up the most with being a God of Fortresses.

A:

Biblical scholars specializing in Daniel identify this "god of fortresses" with Zeus Olympios, who is also being referred to in the surrounding verses. See, e.g., Amy-Jill Levine in The New Oxford Annotated Bible (NRSV)4th ed., annotation to Daniel 11:38. King Antiochus IV, the infamous Hellenizer, in 168 or 167 BCE had basically attempted set up Zeus Olympios as the patron deity of Jerusalem. As part of that, he built an altar to Zeus right atop the traditional altar at the Temple and offered sacrifices on it (1 Macc 1:54, 59). Jews called this the "abomination of desolation," "desolating sacrilege," etc. See generally 1 Macc 1:54-61; 2 Macc 6:6-9. As patron deity, Zeus would have been regarded (by Hellenists) as the protector of the city, meaning that he would have presided also over the citadel of Jerusalem (i.e., the fortress). Considering that Antiochus IV was Hellenizing Jerusalem, the god must be Greek, and there is really no alternative to Zeus. The only other foreign deity that Maccabees mentions (2 Macc 6:7) is Dionysus, who was a conqueror of some lands, most notably India, but his characteristics don't seem to fit the context here as well as Zeus, who was his superior. The traditional Greek war god, Ares, is nowhere to be found in the texts, and in any case would still be subordinate to Zeus.

