Q:

What are good sources to introduce people to mythology?

I would like to learn more about mythology, but I'm unsure where to start. Could anyone recommend some good websites or books for me to take a look at?

Related meta discussion: Helping users with recomendations for sources

A:

Welcome to the site, and welcome to the interesting world of mythology! Here are some resources for you to get started with.
By far the easiest way to learn more about mythology is to go to your local library and borrow one of their books about mythology. Don't worry about selecting the "right" source; just select a book that looks interesting to you. Remember, you are a beginner, therefore you don't know anything about mythology, and therefore any book will teach you something new.
However, we recognize that not everyone can or would like to browse a library, and therefore have created a list of both online and offline resources. This list is by no means exhaustive: its purpose is merely to introduce the reader to a variety of sources about mythology. Please do not be frightened by the amount of sources listed below: just choose a book or website that looks interesting and read it. These books and websites are all interesting, so don't worry about choosing the "wrong" one.
Note to the reader: online sources have an online marker next to them. Offline sources link to the corresponding page on worldcat.org, which will tell you whether the book is located in a library near you.
General Sources
Collections of myths

Creation Stories from around the World -- online collection of creation myths from various cultures.
Sacred-Texts.com -- an online database of translated myths and other sacred texts.
World Mythology
Oxford Companion to World Mythology
Handbook of World Mythology 
Gods, Heroes, and Monsters: A Sourcebook of Greek, Roman, and Near Eastern Myths in Translation

Mythical Encyclopedias

Encyclopedia Mythica -- an online encyclopedia about mythology.

Easier Texts
For younger readers and those who’d like a more lively presentation before tackling the originals.

D’Aulaires’ Book of Greek Myths: illustrated, readable, and blunt. 
D’Aulaires’ Book of Norse Myths: illustrated, readable, and blunt. 
The Greek Gods, by Evslin, Evslin, and Hoopes. Not a long book but easy to read, and the one which got me hooked on mythology in elementary school.
The Adventures of Ulysses, Bernard Evslin: a highly readable and entertaining version of The Odyssey. 
The Norse Myths, Kevin Crossley-Holland, a readable and clear collection of some of the more important Norse myths.

I recommend anything by the D’Aulaires and the Evslins in general.
Mesopotamian Mythology
Translations of Myths

An online translation of The Epic of Gilgamesh
Sumerian Mythology: A Study of Spiritual and Literary Achievement in the Third Millennium B.C.
The Electronic Corpus of Sumerian Literature: Narrative Works

Greek Mythology
Translations of Myths

Homer's Iliad and Odyssey
Hesiod's Theogony -- an online translation of the Greek creation myth.
Homeric Hymns
Pindar's Victory Odes
Apollonius of Rhodes' Argonautica
Pseudo-Apollodorus' Bibliotecha
Ovid's Metamorphoses, plus a downloadable version here. A loosely-structured narrative poem covering many of the classic Greek myths.

Encyclopedias and Other Resources

Timothy Gantz, Early Greek Myth
Theoi -- an online encyclopedia of Greek gods, creatures, and myths.

Celtic Mythology
Translations of Myths

The Four Branches of the Mabinogi: an online translation of a classic collection of welsh myths.
CELT-- a fantastic online database of irish literature.

Encyclopedias

The Camelot Project -- an online encyclopedia of Arthurian myth and legend.

Norse Mythology

Norse Mythology: A Guide to Gods, Heroes, Rituals, and Beliefs by John Lindow
Dictionary of Northern Mythology by Rudolf Simek
Cassell's Dictionary of Norse Myth & Legend by Andy Orchard
Gods and Myths of Northern Europe by 

Encyclopedias

Norse Mythology for Smart People -- an online encyclopedia.

Mesoamerican / Central American

The Flayed God
The Popol Vuh: translations exist online: you can choose between a literal translation and a less literal translation.

Mythological Theory (i.e. something other than Joseph Campbell)

Sacred narrative, readings in the theory of myth
Living Folklore, 2nd Edition: An Introduction to the Study of People and Their Traditions -- an introduction to the academic discipline of folklore, available online from JSTOR, and offline as a book.

Miscellaneous Sources
Blogs about Mythology

Mythology Matters -- an online blog about mythology written by one of our own contributors.

Other Resources

The New York Public Library's Recommended Mythology Links -- an online collection of high-quality websites about mythology.

Interesting Articles

The autobiography of John (William) Bierhorst -- a short online autobiography of a man who translates native american myths for a living. It's a shortish and easy read.

A:

Here are some other sources for Greek and Egyptian myths:
THEOI.com for Greek mythology
Ancient Egypt Online for the Gods and Goddesses
Egyptian Gods and Goddesses
Ancient Egypt, the section on Pharaonic Religion

A:

If you are interested in Summerian mythology you can check out the Oracc Project here: Link to the Oracc Project

