Q:

How did Atenism explain night-time?

Atenism was Egypt's state religion during the reign of Akhenaten. The religion considered Aten - the sun disc - as the supreme and only god, a radical departure from traditional beliefs. 
I realize Atenism only lasted for a few years and probably didn't have enough time to provide answers to all fundamental questions.  However, placing the sun as the supreme god immediately raises the question: What happens at night? Where does Aten go? 
Did Atenism provide an explanation for the absence of the sun disc in the night sky?

A:

Atenism offers a very good example of the exclusivity of presence. We find it in  the moment of dawn and dusk.
The religious ideas with which Akhenaten grew up were those of the New Solar Theology. It is to be found in hymns and rituals and in the Books of the Netherworld of Dynasty. At its core is the daily course of The Sun, which guarantees the continued existence of the cosmos. The Sun god renews his creation every morning, but he also descends nightly into the netherworld, where his resurrecting light wakes the dead to new life in the depths of The Earth.
The entire cosmos is dependent upon light and the sight of the god, but this light must be continually regenerated in the darkness; it must overcome dangers and hostile forces whose most powerful embodiment is the great serpent Apopis/Apep/Apophis. These menacing forces are defeated, and the New Solar Theology reflects a deep trust in the reliability of The Sun.
However, by identifying the diurnal phase of the daily cycle of The Sun with the universal deity (Aten), Atenism was incapable of dealing with something very important to the ancient Egyptians: a good afterlife. The nocturnal phase was not present. The netherworld and Osiris were left out of the picture, although the Duat was mentioned. The Aten "rested" in the West and as it were immediately "dawned" in the East, from "horizon" to "horizon".
Akhenaten and the Religion of Light by Erik Hornung, translated by David Lorton
ancient Egyptian readings by Wim van den Dungen
Great Hymn to the Aten
Akhenaten: history, fantasy and ancient Egypt

A:

https://dl.tufts.edu/concern/pdfs/bn999k24g

An Analysis of the Pharaoh Akhenaten's Religious and Philosophical
  Revolution
An honors thesis for the Department of Anthropology 
Laura Taronas Tufts University, 2012.
p. 16/pdf (p. 14 in article)
"...The third stanza of the Great Hymn discusses the nature of the
  world during the nighttime. In this passage, the darkness of night is
  strongly equated with death and in this sense the absence of the Aten
  means the absence of life on earth. According to traditional solar
  theology the sun god would descend into the underworld at night in
  order to care for the deceased. This is in stark contrast with
  Akhenaten’s vision of the night, in which the Aten is completely
  absent and the dead are completely overlooked. The Aten does not visit
  the realm of the dead, but instead it simply rests. Therefore, this
  stanza of the Great Hymn demonstrates that there is no conception of
  the netherworld in the traditional sense within Atenism. It is not
  clear from the Hymn if there exists an underworld at all and if it is
  a normal element of death. This segment of the Hymn also introduces
  the idea that the world is structured around what can be viewed with
  the human eye. At night when the citizens of the world are asleep they
  possess no cares or desires and “were they robbed of their goods, that
  from under their heads, people would not remark it.”39 In this
  example, Akhenaten is suggesting that because the eye does not see the
  event, it is not something that should worry the individual...."

https://cdn.website-editor.net/e4d6563c50794969b714ab70457d9761/files/uploaded/AncientEgyptTheLightOfTheWorld_GMassey.pdf

Ancient Egypt: The Light of the World by Gerald Massey
p. 261 - The “Aten” of the so-called disk-worship was an ancient form of
  Har-Makhu, god of the double horizon. This, however, was not a worship
  of the solar disk. The disk was but an emblem of the circle made by
  Aten as the god of both horizons. His was a compound type of
  godhood, in which the mother was dual with the son who was her child
  on one horizon and her bull or fecundator on the other. The word
  Aten, from At, was an ancient name for the child. Horus-Behutet, god
  of the hut or winged disk, we take to have been the earliest form of
  Aten. This is the solar god who crossed from the horizon west to the
  horizon east upon the vulture's wings, which were an emblem of the
  motherhood. The “hut” was a dual emblem of the divine infant and the
  mother as bearer of the child. As the bird she carried him over the
  intervening void of darkness where the Apap lay in wait. Thus the
  godhood of Aten consisted of the mother, her child, and the adult male
  or bull of the mother, in a cult which preceded that of the fatherhood
  of Atum-Ra. The glory of Aten as the power that is doubled on the
  horizon of the Resurrection was the object of regard in this religion,
  not the disk.

