Q:

What is the earliest example of the tiny, insect-winged fairy archetype?

I was surprised to find that this particular question is difficult to Google. Everyone is familiar with Tinker Bell and Disney's interpretation of her, but was she the first to have these characteristics? The related question on this site, Who and what are the winged “faries” that feature in fairytale?, has an answer which gives the following quote from Etymonline:

As a name for the diminutive winged beings in children's stories from early 17c.

This claim itself is not cited (it is not even couched as a claim), but context leads to an essay by Tolkien: On Fairy Stories. There, Tolkien mentions Michael Drayton's Nymphidia (1627) and through the use of "fluttering" implies the existence of the archetype:

Drayton's  Nymphidia  is  one  ancestor  of  that long  line  of  flower-fairies and  fluttering  sprites  with  antennae  that  I  so  disliked  as  a  child

Having skim-read through it, it appears that for the most part that all the fairies were indeed diminutive but ground-bound - save for the eponymous Nymphidia who appears to fly between lines 313 and 320.

This thing Nymphidia overheard,
That on this mad king had a guard,
Not doubting of a great reward
    For first this business broaching ;
And through the air away doth go,
Swift as an arrow from the bow,
To let her sovereign Mab to know,
    What peril was approaching.

Whether this is an accident of translation or not is up to people more knowledgeable than I. The question now becomes: is this the earliest example of the archetype, or was Drayton inspired by another?
Also, researching this question has given me a new appreciation for Tolkien as an essayist. Thanks Rubellite Fae!

A:

Fairies were not traditionally winged in folklore, and it seems unlikely that Michael Drayton imagined Nymphidia with wings; the first mention of winged fairies is usually dated to 1712. Fairies were widely believed to have the capability of flight or high-speed travel. See, for instance, Robert Kirk’s Secret Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns and Fairies (1691) where fairies “swim in the air near the earth.” There’s also a widespread story where a man overhears fairies saying “Horse and hattock!” or some other chant, and gets taken along on a ride through the air. (Ancient Criminal Trials in Scotland, p. 604 - see the footnotes for a 17th-century version.) Nymphidia fits into this; she can fly, but Drayton never says she has wings, although later illustrations added them. Tolkien could have been influenced by Thomas Maybank's illustrations from 1906, or something similar.
In the late 16th and early 17th centuries, works like “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” and “Nymphidia” reduced fairies to tiny, harmless beings who might be mistaken for bugs or wear insect-inspired clothing. A wasp is mistaken for a fairy in the poem. So it is certainly fair to call Nymphidia an ancestor of winged fairies even if she's not one herself.
Simon Young's 2019 article "When did fairies get wings?", in the book The Paranormal and Popular Culture, is a helpful in-depth read.
There were some stage costume designs by Inigo Jones around 1605-1610 that may portray winged fairies, but that’s mainly speculation.
Alexander Pope's poem “The Rape of the Lock” (1712) is generally credited with the first appearance of winged fairies:

Some to the sun their insect-wings unfold

And

Swift on his sooty pinions flits the Gnome…

Pope’s winged beings are actually sylphs and gnomes (inspired by Paracelsus’ writings on elemental spirits), but these words gradually became synonymous with fairies. In the later 18th century and the Enlightenment era, the supernatural was not as popular in British literature and art. Young credits a specific group of artists including William Blake, Henry Fuseli, and Thomas Stothard, who stood out for focusing on supernatural subjects including fairies and sylphs. They drew fairies with insect or butterfly wings, possibly to differentiate them from angels.
In the 19th century, fairies were more popular again, and winged fairies predominated. Young posits that winged fairies developed mainly through visual art. Direct textual references to wings generally came later; one of the earliest that he cites is an anonymous poem from 1805 with the line "Wafted to bliss on fairy wings." From poetry, literature and theater, winged fairies eventually looped around into modern folklore.
It’s not clear what made winged fairies win out, but it may be that it’s an easy way to identify them in pictures. I think it grew out of those Nymphidia-like associations with insects and small size. Young mentions some theories that wings were used to evoke flight, angels, or infantilization.

