Q:

How did Homer describe Mycenae?

Did he link his description with myth of Perseus? Could we imagine how it looks like ?

A:

About your first question, there are no mentions of that Perseus in the Odyssey, but of another Perseus that was son of Nestor and Eurydice (or Anaxibia).
And in the Iliad there's no link of Perseus with Mycenae, but there it is with Argos:

and swiftly came to Achaean Argos, where she knew was the stately wife
  of Sthenelus, son of Perseus, that bare a son in her womb, and lo, the
  seventh month was come. This child Hera brought forth to the light
  even before the full tale of the months, but stayed Alcmene's bearing,
  and held back the Eileithyiae. And herself spake to Zeus, son of
  Cronos, to bear him word: ‘Father Zeus, lord of the bright lightning,
  a word will I speak for thy heeding. Lo, even now, is born a valiant
  man that shall be lord over the Argives, even Eurystheus, son of
  Sthenelus, the son of Perseus, of thine own lineage; not unmeet is it
  that he be lord over the Argives.’

Hom. Il. 19.115
"Argives" could be used as an epithet for the whole Greeks, but Homer mentions "Achaean Argos".
About your second question, searching "Mycenae" in the Iliad brings five results in the Perseus site (for a total of seven mentions). An extra one if you search for "Mycene".
In my opinion, these two are the only relevant results for your question:

And with them came a third, Euryalus, a godlike warrior, son of king
  Mecisteus, son of Talaus; but leader over them all was Diomedes, good
  at the war-cry. And with these there followed eighty black ships. And
  they that held Mycenae, the well-built citadel, and wealthy
  Corinth, and well-built Cleonae, and dwelt in Orneiae and lovely
  Araethyrea and Sicyon, wherein at the first Adrastus was king; and
  they that held Hyperesia and steep Gonoessa and Pellene

Hom. Il. 2.565

Then in answer to him spake ox-eyed, queenly Hera: “Verily have I three
  cities that are far dearest in my sight, Argos and Sparta and
  broad-wayed Mycenae; these do thou lay waste whensoe'er they shall be
  hateful to thy heart. Not in their defence do I stand forth, nor
  account them too greatly.

Hom. Il. 4.50
Also, Agamemnon is sometimes referred to as "king of Mycenae, rich in gold", and the only mention of Mycenae in the Odyssey is this one:

Seven years he reigned over Mycenae, rich in gold, after slaying
  the son of Atreus, and the people were subdued under him; but in the
  eighth came as his bane the goodly Orestes back from Athens, and slew
  his father's murderer.

Hom. Od. 3.305
So with these three things we can make from Homer that Mycenae was a well-built citadel, made of broad streets, and very rich in gold.

