Q:

Are vampires called anything else in European folklore?

Does there exist alternative names for vampires? Perhaps an euphemism; for example, in Harry Potter, those who feared Voldemort called him "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named" in lieu of his real name. Or perhaps something like a true name.
Is there anything like this with vampires?
To clarify, I don't mean translations of the word vampire in different languages, nor do I mean variations on vampire lore in different cultures.  I am writing a book, and considering using vampires perhaps, but I would like to be specific, and not calling them just vampires.

A:

In Romanian language you will come across the term Moroi who translates roughly as "dead nightmare".
Another such term is Strigoi.
These terms are used by many modern authors who want to present a vampire-like-creature as something: undead, bloodthirsty, evil (so no Twillight for you).
Example of these books are:

Bloodlines, by Richelle Mead.
The Strain, by  Guillermo del Toro and Chuck Hogan.

In all of these books, the Moroi term is used to describe what the reader perceives as a "vampire" creature.

A:

I picked up a copy of the Element Encyclopedia of Vampires for 4 bucks plus shipping for a reference on the book and I think it definitely would be handy if you do decide to go the vampire route in your book. 
It's 700 pages and has entries about everything from historical vampire panics to folklore all the way to vampires in tv and movies. Not everything is useful but there's definitely enough to make it worth the low cost and having your own copy means you can notate it. 
As far European vampires go, there are a ton of variations in "vampire species" (Upir, Upyr, Upor, Obour, Ubour, Murony, Moroi, Nachzehrer) those are just a few examples. 
They vary wildly in abilities, how they feed, what they eat and many have some pretty weird traits. Like having only one nostril. Not sure why but there are several like that. There are also like 20 species that are just just floating heads with their spines dangling.
I'd advise you to get the book. It's an interesting read if nothing else. Personally though I think you need to just commit if you go the vampire route. They're so engrained in our minds that if they act like a vampire that's how the audience is going to think of them no matter what they go by. 
If you decide not to do the vampire route the book still has a lot you might be able to use. You could take some of the traits from this and that and make your own creature. 
I'll leave the link here. If you think of anything specific you'd like me to look up feel free to ask. Otherwise good luck. 
http://www.amazon.com/Element-Encyclopedia-Vampires--z-Undead/dp/1435123409/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1448507773&sr=8-1&keywords=element+encyclopedia+of+vampires

A:

No. I've done some (admittedly brief) research, and I can't find any mention of vampires having a "code name" that they use to talk about themselves. 
Let's talk about your question. Looking at the original revision for the question, your thought process seems to be something like:

I am writing a book, and I want to include vampires in it.
It would be really cool if the vampires had a secret name that they could use to refer to themselves.
Maybe Vampires actually (i.e. in mythology) had a secret name that they used to refer to themselves.

There is nothing "wrong" with this thought process, but it doesn't represent the best way to learn about vampires. If you want to learn more about vampires, the best way is to get a book from your local library, and then ask question here if you are confused about anything the book says. 
However, if you want to write a book about vampires, I would just use your imagination, and not worry about about whether your story corresponds to mythology. Your book is going to be judged on how interesting/entertaining/thought provoking it is; no one is going to go through your book to make sure that everything you say about vampires is correct.
If you really want to write a realistic book about vampires (not that vampires are realistic), again, my advice is to go to a library and find a book about vampires. Whether vampires use code names is only a small piece of information you need to know about vampires: you also need to know more about what vampires look like, their personality, etc. The best place to learn about all of that would be a book from your local library.
Just my two cents.

