Q:

Who are the twelve gods of the underworld of the Hittites?

The west wall of Chamber B in the Yazilikaya sanctuary, near the Hittite capital Hattusa, depicts - according to Wikipedia - twelve gods of the underworld:

Who are these twelve gods? Do they have names, and what is their function? How do they relate to other gods of the Hittite pantheon? Do they feature in any story?

A:

Thanks for the question. Very interesting search along the way to coming to the following info. 

https://www.heroicage.org/issues/15/malcor.php
Excerpt:
The Twelve Companions
§18.  As Macqueen (1986, 58) pointed out, "The principle weapon
  employed [from Hittite chariots] was the stabbing spear," but the
  Hittite soldiers of the Anatolian hills wielded a slashing-sword,
  which was replaced by "a long cutting-weapon with a straight blade by
  "the end of the second millennium" (Macqueen 1986, 59–60). The swords
  carried by the twelve runners in Chamber B resemble the short,
  crescent-shaped sword, decorated with animal heads which was carried
  by Hittite warriors in ceremonies rather than in battle (Macqueen
  1986, 59–60). The Hittite axe born by Sarruma has "ribbing round the
  shaft-hole [that] is a feature" from, among other places, the northern
  Caucasus area (Macqueen 1986, 61), while the axe's blade "is of a type
  which can be paralleled only in the Caucasus region" (Macqueen 1986,
  61).19 Although the gods carry the swords in this image, recall that
  in the texts the swords are embedded.
§19.  The steppe war god himself was not the celestial Ram, but he was
  represented by the story of the ram, just as Jason can be represented
  by a reference to the Golden Fleece. This raises the possibility that
  he was not the sign of Aries but another sign that appeared in the sky
  along with—or at the same time as—Aries. The twelve figures
  associated with the sword god, then, may have nothing at all to do
  with Underworld deities. Instead, they may represent the twelve signs
  of the Zodiac, and the crossroads the Hittites associated with them
  might not be underground at all, but rather in the sky.
Conclusion
§20.  The Hittite version of the Sword in the Stone story has several
  elements in common with the Arthurian variant. Both feature a sword in
  a graveyard. Both swords are associated with a king. The twelve
  runners in the Hittite variant parallel the Twelve Knights of the
  Round Table in Arthurian tradition. Also, the anvil of the Arthurian
  variant preserves the connection between the forging of iron and the
  story of the god who planted a sword in a stone. The tales are clearly
  part of the same tradition, yet, by placing the image of the sword god
  in conjunction with celestial deities at Yazilikaya, the Hittites
  retained an association that the Arthurian variant has lost: the tale
  of the Sword in the Stone had something to do with the stars.

Historical Dictionary of the Hittites By Charles Burney 

(Note: Any typos are mine.)

The clearest, most familiar manifestation of the Underworld in Hittite
  religion, or more accurately in the Hurrian cult, occurs in Chamber B
  of the Yazilikaya sanctuary outside the city of Hattusa, with the
  remarkable and indeed unique Sword-God, a god in human form emerging
  from the hilt of a dagger, its blade too shortened to be termed a
  sword. This has long been recognized as identifiable with Nergal, the
  god of the Underworld, one of the Mesopotamian deities imported by the
  Hurrians into Anatolia. From a magical ritual going far to explain the
  Sword-God of Chamber B at Yazilikaya come the words: “He makes them as
  swords and fixes them in the ground.” In another text “the bronze
  swords of Nergal” and “the twelve gods of the crossroads” are
  mentioned together: hence the twelve running gods, not soldiers as
  once supposed, facing the Sword-God and likewise appearing in the
  larger Chamber A at Yazilikaya at the rear of the procession….

