Q:

Why do the Greeks have two different messenger gods?

Hermes was a messenger god. And Iris, with her rainbows, was also a messenger goddess.
Why would the Greeks have two different messenger gods?

A:

It's helpful to not consider Greek mythology as a unified, logically consistent whole. That they have two gods for one task is because humans are creating stories about the gods. Moreover, neither of the two are truly "messenger gods" per se, but rather they both manifest characteristics which allow storytellers to use them as messengers.
For Iris, the rainbow which appears to go from heaven to the ground can be conceived of as some sort of pathway from the divine to the mortal spheres. This easily lends itself to the interpretation of rainbows as pathways for gods to communicate with mortals. The Iliad, the earliest Greek work we have, Iris is the messenger of the gods.
For Hermes, since he's the "patron" (of sorts) of travelers, that function lends itself to his being cast as a messenger, as one who travels from the gods to mortals. He relays messages in the Odyssey, the second oldest Greek work we have, but not the Iliad.
Since the two oldest works of Greek literature use either of these two gods for messages, they both became "messenger" gods. Note though that they have domains far beyond that, especially Hermes, who protected flocks, looked after traders and merchants, guided souls of the dead to Hades, and even protected Horace in battle.

A:

Hermes was a lot of things.

"Helper Hermes" (Iliad)
A companion to men (Iliad)
"pro-eminent in subtle thoughts" (Iliad)
"keen-sighted" (Odyssey)
Deceitful (Works and Days)

Other sources mention further variances.
Hermes is a clever thinker, an aid to the gods, and a guide for mankind. He plays many parts.
Iris, on the other hand, though sometimes replacing Hermes' position (as in the Odyssey), is more purely a messenger. 
She is described in more single-minded terms, repeatedly so throughout the Iliad:

"wind-footed" (Iliad)
Bearing messages (Iliad)

and very directly,

a "messenger" (Iliad)

Other sources describing her, such as the Argonautica, were probably written later than the Iliad and the Odyssey, so their adherence to this structure can probably be largely disregarded.
The reasons for the difference between Hermes and Iris, and the need for both of them, so to speak, could be debated; I'm not expert enough to offer any real opinion on the matter. Certainly Homer (if he was indeed the author we believe him to be) wrote wrote works containing both Hermes and Iris, so the real reason for the parts they play may be buried in author's intent.
There may not really be much of a reason other than that. Deities tend to double up on duties and roles as they serve the needs of their authors. Especially for humanistic deities such as those in classic Greek mythology, it makes sense for writers like Homer and others to use and discard them as needed to make the plot and lessons flow. After all, it is more imperative for them to make a clear point than to uphold a certain standard for one individual deity.

