Q:

Do Arthurian scholars or other original Arthurian legends agree with Geoffrey of Monmouth's depiction of King Arthur's death?

One of the most popular accounts of the life of King Arthur is that of Geoffrey of Monmouth, who writes that Arthur was killed by his nephew, Mordred. Geoffrey's account is by no means canonical, as there are many folk stories of Arthur. However, I haven't been able to find any other accounts of Arthur's death.
Do Arthurian scholars or other original Arthurian legends agree with Geoffrey of Monmouth's depiction of King Arthur's death? What are their historical (preferably written) accounts?

A:

TL;DR: They do indeed! The details vary, but certainly after Geoffrey of Monmouth, it's generally agreed that Mordred was responsible for Arthur's downfall - Arthur killed Mordred, but was mortally wounded in the process.
c. 1136: The original account in Geoffrey of Monmouth's Historia Regum Brittaniae, the generally accepted first appearance of Arthur, in which he refers to Mordred as Modred, says:

[In Cornwall] Modred, as he was the boldest of men, and always the
  quickest at making an attack, immediately placed his troops in order,
  resolving either to conquer or to die, rather than continue his flight
  any longer. [...] It would be both grievous and tedious to relate the
  slaughter, the cruel havoc, and the excess of fury that was to be seen
  on both sides. In this manner they spent a good part of the day, till
  Arthur at last made a push with his company, consisting of six
  thousand six hundred and sixty-six men, against that in which he knew
  Modred was; and having opened a way with their swords, they pierced
  quite through it, and made a grievous slaughter. For in this assault
  fell the wicked traitor himself, and many thousands with him. [...]
  And even the renowned king Arthur himself was mortally wounded; and
  being carried thence to the isle of Avallon to be cured of his wounds,
  he gave up the crown of Britain to his kinsman Constantine, the son of
  Cador, duke of Cornwall, in the five hundred and forty-second year of
  our Lord's incarnation.

c. 1155: Wace's Roman de Brut (translation by Eugene Mason) says:

Arthur was sick with wrath that he was not avenged of Mordred. He had
  neither peace nor rest whilst the traitor abode in his land. Arthur
  learned of Mordred’s strength in Cornwall, and this was grievous to
  him. [...] Arthur sent after his men to the very Humber. He gathered
  to himself so mighty a host that it was as the sand for multitude.
  With this he sought Mordred where he knew he could be found. He
  purposed to slay and make an end of the traitor and his perjury alike.
  Mordred had no desire to shrink from battle. He preferred to stake all
  on the cast, yea, though the throw meant death—rather than be harried
  from place to place. The battle was arrayed on the Camel, over against
  the entrance to Cornwall. [...] There, too, was Mordred slain in the
  press, together with the greater part of his folk; and in the selfsame
  day were destroyed the flower of Arthur’s host, the best and hardiest
  of his men. So the chronicle speaks sooth, Arthur himself was wounded
  in his body to the death. He caused him to be borne to Avalon for the
  searching of his hurts. [...] Arthur bade that he should be carried to
  Avalon in this hope in the year 642 of the Incarnation. The sorer
  sorrow that he was a childless man. To Constantine, Cador’s son, Earl
  of Cornwall, and his near kin, Arthur committed the realm, commanding
  him to hold it as king until he returned to his own. The earl took the
  land to his keeping. He held it as bidden, but nevertheless Arthur
  came never again.

c. 1400: In the Alliterative Morte Arthure (because who needs prose when you can have it in stanzas?):

He hit Mordred amid the breste
And out at the backe bone him bore;
There hath Mordred his life lost,
That speche spake he never more;
Then keenly up his arm he cast
And gave Arthur a wounde sore,
Into the hede through the helm and crest,
That three times he swooned there.

Wider context in Alliterative Morte Arthure: I've found references stating that Mordred attached Arthur in disguise in this version, but that Arthur recognised him because he was using Arthur's other sword (not Excalibur), Clarent. However, I need to read the orignal text more carefully to verify this.
1485: Thomas Mallory, in his famous Le Morte d'Arthur (Helen Cooper, Oxford World Classics version), in Book VIII: The Death of Arthur, says:

And when Sir Mordred saw King Arthur, he ran unto him with his sword
  drawn in his hand; and there King Arthur smote Sir Mordred under the
  shield with a foin of his spear, throughout the body, more than a
  fathom. And when Sir Mordred felt that he had his death’s wound, he
  thrust himself with the might that he had up to the bur* of King
  Arthur’s spear; and right so he smote his father, King Arthur, with
  his sword holding in both his hands, upon the side of the head, that
  the sword pierced the helmet and the tay* of the brain. And there-with
  Mordred dashed down stark dead to the earth. And noble King Arthur
  fell in a swoon to the earth, and there he swooned oftentimes.[...]
  ‘Comfort thyself,’ said the King, ‘and do as well as thou mayest, for
  in me is no trust for to trust in. For I will into the vale of Avilion
  to heal me of my grievous wound; and if thou hear never more of me,
  pray for my soul.’

Wider context in Le Morte d'Arthur: Sir Gawain has been slain in a recent battle with Mordred's forces. Later, he comes to Arthur in a dream and warns him not to battle with Mordred. Arthur asks for a truce, and the two armies meet to discuss this, but after a snake appears, a knight draws a sword to kill it. This is taken as a symbol of aggression, and the "final battle" starts. After Arthur is mortally wounded, he gives his sword, Excalibur, to Sir Bedivere to throw in a lake. After Sir Bedivere finally complies, a hand rises from the water to catch the sword.

