Q:

What do we know about Apollo Maleatas?

From Wikipedia:

The sanctuary of Apollo Maleatas (Greek: Ἀπόλλων Μαλεάτας) is located on a low hill on Mount Kynortion, east of the sanctuary of Asklepios at Epidaurus. At the peak of the hill was a small Early Helladic settlement, which was never built on in later periods. At the beginning of the Late Bronze Age, an open-air altar was used where animals were sacrificed and votives deposited in the ash. Dedications include votive bronze double axes, bronze swords, and clay animal figurines. There is evidence for cult activity in the Geometric period.
Source: Wikipedia contributors. (2017, August 26). Apollo Maleatas. In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved 20:57, September 24, 2018, from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Apollo_Maleatas&oldid=797380156

Unfortunately, the article is very thin on details. What does Maleatas mean, and how did Apollo acquire the epithet? What was the god's connection to the Theatre at Epidaurus?

A:

From the Name of a Place
In William Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Mythology and Biography the name is spelled Maleates (Μαλεάτης), whose article entry goes on to tell us that it is 

a surname of Apollo, derived from cape Malea, in the south of Laconia.
  He had sanctuaries under this name at Sparta and on mount Cynortium.

This article from the Dictionary references a couple of passages mentioning the deity in Pausanias' Description of Greece. In 3.12.8, Pausanias does indeed render the name as Μαλεάτης, saying:

The Lakedaimonians have an altar of Apollon Akritas, and a sanctuary,
  surnamed Gasepton, of Ge. Above it is set up Apollon Maleates.

The cape referred to in the Dictionary is called Cape Maleas on Wikipedia, which it derives from Ακρωτήριον Μαλέας (Akrotêrion Maléas), "a peninsula and cape in the southeast of the Peloponnese in Greece." The Wikipedia article adds that:

It separates the Laconian Gulf in the west from the Aegean Sea in
  the east. It is the second most southerly point of mainland Greece
  (after Cape Matapan) and once featured one of the largest light-houses
  in the Mediterranean. The seas around the cape are notoriously
  treacherous and difficult to navigate, featuring variable weather and
  occasionally very powerful storms.

In the Odyssey (Book 9), it is while he sails westwards trying to round this cape, close to the final leg of his voyage to return home from Troy, that Odysseus first gets blown off course to begin his years of marine misadventure in earnest. 

The light-house mentioned in the Wikipedia article
According to the 10th chapter, "Unpublished Ephebic List in the Benakeion Museum of Kalamata", written (2009) by Andronike Makres in Greek History and Epigraphy: Essays in Honour of P.J. Rhodes:

Several dedications referring to the sanctuary of 'Apollo Maleatas and
  Asklepios' have been found from at least as early as the third century
  BC, which show that the sanctuary housed what was in fact a common
  cult of Apollo and his son Asklepios and that Apollo received the
  sacrificial offering first.

Or Rather From the Name of a Guy
An alternate etymology derives this epithet of Apollo from Malos, a maternal ancestor of Asklepios. 
In the 2nd chapter, entitled "Gods of (Con)fusion: Athena Alea, Apollo Maleatas and Athena Aphaia", of Volume 64 of Classica et Mediaevalia, the Danish Journal of Philology and History (2013), regarding the Epidauros [Epidaurus] sanctuary of Apollon Maleates, Jeremy McInerney says on pp. 60-64:

The cult of the Maleatas sanctuary was... of great antiquity, and
  continued through the Archaic and Classical periods. The precise
  identity of the original recipient of the cult is, however, much
  harder to establish with certainty. Towards the end of the 4th century
  BC the Epidaurian poet Isyllos composed a paian to Asklepios, in which
  he referred to the god who shared Asklepios' honours: 
      Malos was the first to build the altar of
  Apollo Maleatas
          And made the sanctuary splendid with sacrifices.
          Isyll., Coll. Alex. pp. 132-3, 27-28, tr. Bremmer 
He goes on to recount the genealogy of Asklepios, born to the
  union of Apollo and Koronis, the granddaughter of Malos. Isyllos does
  not offer any further information about the epiklesis Maleatas, but
  the occurrence of Malos in the same line suggests that Isyllos derived
  the god's name from the family of his worshippers...
The evidence prior to Isyllos' paian, however, suggests a more
  complex history. When Asklepios was welcomed at Athens from Epidauros
  c. 421 BC regulations regarding his cult stipulated separate offerings
  to Maleatas, to Apollo and to Hermes (as well as certain other minor
  deities). In the eyes of the Athenians, then, Maleatas and Apollo were
  two distinct gods, Maleatas was not an epiklesis of Apollo, and
  hence there was no need to postulate a human eponym to explain the
  god's name. Yet, around the same time in Lakonia the Spartans were
  making dedications both to Apollo and Maleatas separately and to
  Apollo Maleatas as a single deity... Near Kosmas in the southern
  Kynouria, games appear to have been held in his honour at a festival
  called the Maleateia. Hence the relationship between Apollo and
  Maleatas is complicated. At times they appear separate, and at other
  times they appear to be a single, syncretized figure.
It may be worth exploring the geographical associations behind
  the name in order to elucidate the god's identity. The name Maleatas
  derives from Cape Malea, the eastern-most peninsula of the
  Peloponnese. The original deity was simply the local version of the
  youthful Archer god: Apollo of Cape Malea. At some point the local god
  was distinct from Apollo... It is hard to say when the fusion of the
  two took place, but the extension of the god's reach from the eastern
  side of Lakonia to the eastern side of the Peloponnese fit well with
  Sparta's assertion of a claim to Kynouria, the contested borderland
  between Lakonia and Argos. Here Apollo Maleatas was pressed into
  service... Apollo Maleatas represents, in this instance, less a fusion
  of local and panhellenic cults so much as a pure expression of
  territorial hegemony.
At Epidauros, however, the relationship of Apollo and Maleatas
  was quite different. When Apollo Maleatas makes his first appearance
  at Epidauros, in the paian of Isyllos, the entire focus of the poem is
  on creating a genealogy for Asklepios rooted in the soil of
  Epidauros:

[T]his is the tradition which reached the ears of our
    forefathers, o Phoibos Apollo: it says that Zeus gave the Muse Erato
    to Malos as his wife in holy matrimony. Now Phlegyas, whose native
    city was Epidauros, married Malos' daughter whom Erato, her mother
    bore, and Kleophema was her name. Phlegyas fathered Aigla, that was her
    name; she was also called Koronis because of her beauty. Now Phoibos
    of the golden bow saw her in Malos' house and put an end to the season
    of her virginity.
    Isyll., Coll. Alex. pp.132-136. 37-49 tr. Bremmer

From the union of Phoibos and Koronis was born Asklepios.
It is noticeable that Apollo is addressed as Phoibos, the god of
  the paian. The name Maleatas drops out, and the only vestige of his
  presence is in the references to a human progenitor of the divine
  dynasty, Malos. Nor is any explicit connection made with the Lakonian
  Apollo Maleatas. In fact, given Malos' importance to the human side of
  the family tree of Asklepios, since he is the earliest male progenitor
  of the female line, it seems that, for Isyllos, Apollo Maleatas
  signified not the fusion of Apollo and Maleatas, nor specifically a
  Lakonian god, but simply Apollo as honoured by the family of
  Malos...
... How in fact the Lakonian god Apollo Maleatas became associated
  with the venerable cult on Mt Kynortion is unclear, although it is not
  impossible that in identifying Apollo as Maleatas the Epidaurians were
  making overtures to Sparta at the expense of their nearer neighbour,
  Argos.

Walking Distance
There seems to be no especially noteworthy connection between Maleates/Maleatas and the Epidauros Theatre beyond the fact that the god's sanctuary appears to be the nearest major man-made structure to the theatre, less than half an hour away on foot (at least on current modern roads, depending on which route one takes, according to GoogleMaps).
 

