SQL is declarative programming language

1-DDL(Data definition language)
create, alter, truncate and rename of tables
create: create a table or view
alter: modify the structure of a table or view
rename: rename table or column name
truncate: deleting table data and keeping table as an object in database
drop: deleting table and its data


2-DML(Data manipulation language)
insert, update, delete, merge of tables
insert: adding new data to table
update: modifying existing data in table
delete: removing data from table with specific
merge: combining data from two or more tables
select: select data from table

3-Data control language
grant, revoke, 
grant: giving permission to user to perform certain operations on database
revoke: removing permission from user to perform certain operations on database


4- Transaction control language
commit: saving changes made to database
rollback: undoing changes made to database
savepoint: saving point in database where changes can be rolled back
set transaction isolation level: setting level of isolation for transaction
set transaction read only: setting database to read only mode



definition of relational database:
A relational database is a type of database that stores and manages data in a structured and organized way,
using tables, rows, and columns to represent relationships between data elements.


Relational database essential 
1- normalization: 
2- indexing: 
3- views: 
4- stored procedure
5- triggers
6- constraints
7- subqueries
8- joins
9- aggregate functions
10- indexing





Database vs Spreadsheet
Database: 
1- data is stored in a structured format
2- data is stored in a centralized location
3- data is stored in a secure location
4- data is stored in a scalable location
5- data is stored in a location that can be accessed by multiple users
6- data is stored in a location that can be accessed by multiple applications
7- data is stored in a location that can be backed up and recovered
8- data is stored in a location that can be audited and tracked
Spreadsheet:
1- data is stored in an unstructured format
2- data is stored in a decentralized location
3- data is stored in an insecure location
4- data is stored in a non-scalable location
5- data is stored in a location that can be accessed by a single user
6- data is stored in a location that can be accessed by a single application
7- data is stored in a location that cannot be backed up and recovered
8- data is stored in a location that cannot be audited and tracked


Relational Schema 
A relational schema is a visual representation of the structure of a relational database. It consists of a set
of tables, each representing a relation, and the relationships between them. The schema is used to define
the structure of the data, including the columns, data types, and relationships between the tables.

Primary key:
A primary key is a unique identifier for each row in a table. It is used to identify each
row uniquely and to establish relationships between tables. it should not be null and should be underlined. 
it can be composed of two columns
Foreign key:
A foreign key is a field in a table that refers to the primary key of another table. It
establishes a relationship between the two tables. arrow should be from foreign key of one table to primary
key of another table. foreign key can repeat and can be null 
Null values: 
A null value is a value that is not present in a field. It is used to indicate that
a value is not known or not applicable. 
Composite key:
A composite key is a key that is composed of two or more columns. It is used to
establish relationships between tables. it should not be null and should be underlined.
unique key:
A unique key is a key that is used to uniquely identify each row in a table. it could
 be null and should be underlined. it can be composed of two columns.
Data Types:
A data type is a classification of data that determines the type of value that can be stored in a
field. Common data types include integer, string, date, and boolean.


relationships
one to one: one row in one table is related to one row in another table 
one to many: one row in one table is related to many rows in another table
