Q:

aligning multiple 3D cameras

Hello, we want to use several 3D cameras (including a couple of Xtions and a couple of Kinects etc.) to capture a whole room. The cameras are rigidly attached to a frame around the outside of the room, all facing inwards toward the center. We input some approximate relative camera poses already but the poses need to be properly aligned/calibrated (hopefully using a single fixed double-sided checkerboard in the center which they can all see at the same time).
The question is: what's the best package to calibrate the camera poses?
Is it possible to use the robot_calibration package. it seems to be more designed to calibrate using a moving arm and therefore expects to calibrate a using a series of poses from a bag, but since our "robot" doesn't move perhaps its possible to just not give it a bag, or to give it a bag with one pose and zero joints?
Perhaps some other package exists... I read the readme for camera_pose_calibration but found it quite confusing
Thanks in advance!

Originally posted by Benjamint on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2017-02-07
Post score: 0

A:

See if ethz-asl/kalibr and / or industrial_extrinsic_cal suit your needs.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2017-02-07
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Benjamint on 2017-02-08:
thanks, tomorrow ill let you know if it works. any idea whether robot_calibration with one pose and no joints would work? that's the preferred solution if its possible
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-08:
I can't comment on whether robot_calibration can do this. Perhaps you could ask on the issue tracker.
Comment by Benjamint on 2017-02-10:
unfortunately industrial_extrinsic_cal is out, it had heaps of problems and when it eventually worked it didn't do a great job. where is the issue tracker?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-10:
The repository link is listed on the wiki page. That also hosts the tracker: industrial_calibration/issues.

