Q:

Unable to locate package industrial

Hi,
I'm trying to setup a connection to an UR5. I use Ubuntu Trusty (14.04) with ROS Indigo. I followed the tutrioal Getting Started with a Universal Robot and ROS-Industrial. There it's said that I need the ROS-Industrial's industrial_core package. Therefore I followed the Industrial/Install-tutorial. But when trying the commands
sudo apt-get install ros-hydro-industrial-core

or
sudo apt-get install ros-hydro-industrial-desktop

I get the error
E: Unable to locate package ros-hydro-industrial-desktop

I also tried the other steps of the Getting Started with a Universal Robot and ROS-Industrial but then I get the Error
[FATAL] [1424787993.220925675]: Exception while loading controller manager 'moveit_simple_controller_manager/MoveItSimpleControllerManager': According to the loaded plugin descriptions the class moveit_simple_controller_manager/MoveItSimpleControllerManager with base class type movit_controller_manager::MoveItControllerManager does not exitst.

I guess that's then part of the Ros-Industrial-Package?
Any help is appreciated. Please consider, that I'm a real beginner in ROS.
Thanks and regards!

Originally posted by bluefish on ROS Answers with karma: 236 on 2015-02-24
Post score: 0

A:

You forgot to add it to your question, but I guess you are running Ubuntu Trusty (14.04) with ROS Indigo?
The ROS-Industrial packages have not yet been released for Indigo, except those from the Universal Robots repository. So you cannot install industrial-desktop on Indigo yet.
In addition, you cannot install ros-hydro-x-x packages on Ubuntu Trusty, as Hydro is not supported on Trusty.
Try installing the Universal Robot packages like this:
sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-universal-robot

that should work.
PS: You don't need industrial_core for the Universal Robot packages. That is only needed for the other drivers in ROS-Industrial. I've logged an issue about that (universal_robot/issues/173).

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2015-02-24
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by bluefish on 2015-02-24:
It works exactly as you wrote. Thanks for the information!! :)
And yes you're right about my Ubuntu and ROS versions as well.
Thanks again!!

