Q:

Different versions of ROS running on robot vs laptop?

Hi everyone,
I'm a ROS n00b and am trying to get up and running with my first ROS robot. Here's my setup:

Wild Thumper chassis
Raspberry Pi 2
UbuntuARM
Sparkfun Monster Moto Shield
Arduino Mega2560 for actuactor/sensor interfacing with RPi 2

My laptop is a Macbook Pro, so I downloaded a VirtualBox machine with ROS already installed. It has ROS Indigo.
A couple of questions:

Does it matter if the ROS versions on the Raspberry Pi 2 and on the VM (which will be ROS Master) differ?
If it's not critical that the versions match, is it recommended/ideal/better in some way if they do match?
I see that Indigo is the stable version of ROS right now, while Jade is the latest. Is Indigo better for a complete beginner, since it is the stable branch? Or are there some significant benefits to running Jade?

Any advice for the best configuration with versions, etc, for a complete ROS n00b would be greatly appreciated! Also, if anyone has any suggestions regarding things I've overlooked, or might not know to ask about, that would be really greatly appreciated!  :)
Thanks

Originally posted by tommytwoeyes on ROS Answers with karma: 57 on 2015-12-21
Post score: 0

A:

By definition there will have been changes between one version and the other. This could cause issues which are difficult to resolve with a simple update of software to ensure they use the same version, as one version will always be different to the other. You are creating a situation that could cause issues that you don't need to. Getting a robot to work correctly is hard enough already.
I would suggest Indigo as the most stable and tested of the two.

Originally posted by nickw with karma: 1504 on 2015-12-21
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by tommytwoeyes on 2015-12-21:
I see. So, to be clear, you are saying that a robot with ROS Jade installed cannot communicate with or work effectively with a ROS Master (laptop) which has ROS Indigo installed?
Comment by nickw on 2015-12-21:
no - it won't be that extreme - it could work fine, but if it doesn't it might be something that you've done wrong, or an incompatibility because of changes between versions. you probably don't need that uncertainty
Comment by tommytwoeyes on 2015-12-21:
Ok, I see. It seemed unlikely that different versions of ROS would not be inter-operable. But, as you said, when you're a beginner building a new robot, it's hard enough as it is, so you don't want to create unnecessary issues. I've uninstalled ROS Jade on my Pi 2 & replaced it with Indigo. Thanks!

