Q:

Creating own widgets for rqt

Hello again :)
I have one more question regarding documentation of rqt:
In the tutorial Writing Python Plugin there's a paragraph 3.2 Using a UI file, which I don't really understand. It says:

The example uses an Qt Designer UI
file to describe the widget tree.
Instead of hand-coding the widget tree
the python_qt_binding.loadUi function
creates the widgets at runtime based
on the description from the file.

Does it mean that now I have to create a project with Qt Designer and afterwards just copy the .ui file?  (A project like based on an example Creating a Qt Widget Based Application ?) But how will all the functions copy themselves to Python?
I managed to write some simple widget based on rqt_robot_steering (and add it to RosGui :)), but I had to write all callback functions by hand. Is there a way of doing it automagically?
Cheers,
da-na

Originally posted by da-na on ROS Answers with karma: 306 on 2013-06-20
Post score: 3

A:

Does it mean that now I have to create a project with Qt Designer and afterwards just copy the .ui file? (A project like based on an example Creating a Qt Widget Based Application ?) 

No it's not mandatory. There's another rqt tutorial page that explains (sorry the link was missing from python tutorial you cited); in a nutshell, it's up to developers to use Qt Designer / .ui files or not. Although personally I highly recommend using it for better maintenance, if you choose not to use .ui files in your rqt plugin, there's still a portion of document about non-ui files.
But how will all the functions copy themselves to Python?

That tutorial should explain the idea too.
I managed to write some simple widget based on rqt_robot_steering (and add it to RosGui :)), but I had to write all callback functions by hand. Is there a way of doing it automagically? 

In Qt in general you use Signal-Slot feature for callback mechanism, which is applicable to rqt as well.
Please add comments / modify your OP if something is still unclear.

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2013-06-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

