Q:

Unable to download packages on Raspberry Pi

I'm going through the tutorials and am unable to download the fuerte version of rqt to continue. Apparently the packages aren't showing up in the list. I initially installed ROS following these instructions:
www.ros.org/wiki/ROSberryPi/Setting%20up%20ROS%20on%20RaspberryPi

While going through the tutorial I went to install the applications like so:
pi@raspberrypi ~/scripts $ sudo apt-get install ros-fuerte-qt-gui-core ros-fuerte-rqt
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package ros-fuerte-qt-gui-core
E: Unable to locate package ros-fuerte-rqt

Are there any specific sources I need to have enabled to get these packages? Currently I just have the four defaults (I don't have enough karma yet to post the actual source urls, hopefully these are sufficient):
mirrordirector.raspbian.org
us.debian.org
packages.ros.org/ubuntu precise
archive.raspberrypi.org/debian wheezy

Thus far I haven't been able to locate the packages. I tried pulling the packages for a full fuerte desktop install into a VM, and that gave me all sorts of dependency issues. So I figure the ubuntu repos are out for this case.
Does anyone know how I can get this tool? Thanks!

Originally posted by AlphaSierra on ROS Answers with karma: 124 on 2013-06-12
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by 130s on 2013-06-12:
Though not relevant to the question itself, I think adding sharp/pound at the beginning of the tag is only for when you search by tag according to help http://answers.ros.org/help/

A:

As Marco said, the information should probably be put together in one place for more clarity.
That being said, and to answer your question, the tutorial that you have followed does not mention a package repository for ROS binaries. This means you will not be able to apt-get install ros-fuerte-somepackage because your system does not know where to find a repository containing these packages. To my knowledge, nobody publicly claimed that such a repository was available and chances are that you will not find one.
However, as Marco said, if you don't specifically need Fuerte, you can install ROS Groovy on Raspbian, there is a repository made just for that. I would recommend you follow the instructions on http://www.ros.org/wiki/groovy/Installation/Raspbian. These instructions are not complete though, for the rest of the procedure you should rely on the generic Ubuntu install as can be found here: http://www.ros.org/wiki/groovy/Installation/Ubuntu, starting from item 1.5 Initialize rosdep, and then on the different tutorials available for ROS Groovy.
Good luck!

Originally posted by po1 with karma: 411 on 2013-06-12
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by AlphaSierra on 2013-06-13:
Sounds like a plan, I'll try working through those. I'm still new to ROS, and just went with fuerte because that's what the tutorial covered.I had to build ROS from source while following those instructions, are those tools not included in those source repositories?
Comment by AlphaSierra on 2013-06-14:
So I got stuff to download, so that's that issue solved. Although the pcl is missing from following the instructions to install from source.
Comment by po1 on 2013-06-14:
Have you tried apt-get install ros-groovy-pcl?

