Q:

/map and /odom after mapping the environment

Hi,
1.
I have managed to build a map using turtlebot simulator in gazebo and I see that the building of map is rather bad. I hope its because of the odometry instability in gazebo. Or am i missing something here. Any tricks to build a better map.
Note: I used the one that is available in turtlebot_navigation here.
2
I see that the tf's of /map and /odom after building the map are quite separated. Does this confirm my assumption that the odometry is not stable for the turtlebot simulation.
3
In that case can anyone suggest me a good robot model that has stable odometry.
Thanks,
Karthik

Bad mapping: For example there are 4 tables in a room. When i move around the robot i see that after multiple scans of the same obstacle, the shape (occupied region) reduces to less than half and at times counts the actually occupied region to be free space.

Originally posted by karthik on ROS Answers with karma: 2831 on 2012-02-07
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by karthik on 2012-02-07:
Diaz: Added the issue to my question
Comment by Dan Lazewatsky on 2012-02-07:
What do you mean by bad? Is the map not self-consistent? Are angles/distances, etc inaccurate? Is the map just noisy? There are lots of factors that will affect the quality of a map, and problems with different factors can manifest themselves in different ways.

A:

I can't speak for the accuracy of the Turtlebot simulator, but I can say that I've used the erratic_robot stack with a good deal of success.

Originally posted by DimitriProsser with karma: 11163 on 2012-02-07
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by DimitriProsser on 2012-02-07:
You can just copy snippets of the turtlebot's kinect.launch and add it to the erratic robot.
Comment by karthik on 2012-02-07:
Ok... actually i need kinect to be there for my project. So can how do i add kinect to the erratic_robot. Do you think that can change the efficiency.
Comment by asimay_y on 2016-08-25:
hi, dear @DimitriProsser, how to use the slam navigation? just run the two files: move_base_slam.launch and slam_gmapping.launch is ok?

