Q:

Sending waypoints to navigation stack

Hello,
I would like to know how to send mutliple goals to a robot that doesn't have LaseScan to create a map.

Using the diff_drive package , I managed to visualize the movement of the real robot on rviz (diff_drive_odometry) and to make it achieve one goal after another (diff_drive_go_to_goal). the connection (rosserial_python) isn't perfect but the robot can achieve the goal.

Now, I am want to make my robot follow a path. I saw we could use waypoints but I am not really sure about how to do this. Currently, I am subscribing to move_base_simple/goal to send a goal and when the robot achieves its goal, the client can send another goal but in most of the examples I saw, move_base is used, what are the differences between these two ?

Thanks in advance,
Shanika

Originally posted by Shanika on ROS Answers with karma: 66 on 2019-07-22
Post score: 0

A:

The ROS  navigation stack is based on move_base and uses global and local planners and costmaps .  I dont know much about the diff_drive package you linked but what I can see from description is that it is a "lighter-weight" solution than the ROS controller framework and uses  actionlib and PID to calculate velocities. Also I see that is subscribes to move_base_simple/goal just to grab the goal given via the RViz 2D Nav goal plugin.  
As for the waypoint navigation, you can write your own node that can send multiple waypoints using  SimpleActionClient from  actionlib. Also there are some packages like the follow_waypoints that already have some implementation of waypoint navigation.

Originally posted by pavel92 with karma: 1655 on 2019-07-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Shanika on 2019-07-23:
In order to use move_base, does the robot need to have LaserScan ? In my case, the robot only has an ultrasound sensor.
Comment by pavel92 on 2019-07-23:
This can ask this as a separate question. You should check for existing layers like this one and this question might have some info.
Comment by Shanika on 2019-07-24:
I will check these links before asking in a separate question. Thank you for your answer ^^

