Q:

Dynamic_reconfigure's .cfg file synchronization with parameter's changes

Hello folks!
I'm wondering is there a simple way to update your .cfg file (used by dynamic_reconfigure tool) with the changes you make during program run? So that each time you restart roscore, the parameter's server uploads the latest changes you put via rqt_reconfigure, without manually updating your .cfg file.
I found similar question regarding Rosparam package without certain solutions. So maybe somebody came up with it for Dynamic_reconfigure pack?
I would appreciate if you can provide your solution with roscpp.
Thank you in advance!

Originally posted by postal on ROS Answers with karma: 41 on 2016-01-16
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by lucasw on 2016-01-18:
I would really like to have that: a dynamic dynamic reconfigure, but the cfg has be compiled so it doesn't seem possible.  I'm working on a system for dynamically creating a bunch of topics with types and mins, maxes, types and having an rqt gui get created for https://github.com/lucasw/v4l2ucp
Comment by lucasw on 2016-01-18:
Maybe it could save the parameters to a ~/.ros temp file, or be configured to load and save initial value params from a defined location.

A:

I've loaded ros params that were in turn saved to disk by an earlier instance of the same node that upon init override the cfg provided defaults.  There were some complications with exactly when the parameters ought to be set to prevent the cfg defaults from overriding.  TBD put some more details in here later.

Originally posted by lucasw with karma: 8729 on 2016-01-18
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by postal on 2016-02-23:
Thank you for your reply! Looking forward for your updates
Comment by lucasw on 2016-05-09:
I think I misunderstood dynamic reconfigure before, the params in the node namespace ought to override cfg defaults, so rosparam dump to yaml, followed by a load from the same yaml ought to work.

