Q:

Which mechanical device could repeatedly present an ID tag to a card-reader

I'm trying to build a test-automation robotic arm which can repeatedly present an ID-tag (such as RFID or NFC card or fob) to a card reader.
I suspect our reader fails either (a) after hundreds of presentations or due to fast presentations or (b) at a specific moment in the reader duty cycle.
The tag needs to move in a well-controlled manner:

Quickly present the card, 
Pause (mark)
Quickly remove the card,
Pause (space)
Repeat at 1.

I'm calling the present/remove sequence the mark-space ratio for simplicity.
The tests I want to perform involve varying (a) the frequency and (b) the mark-space ratio, to (a) stress-test and  (b) boundary-test the re-presentation guard times built into the reader to debounce presentations.
The guard times are around 400ms, response around 100ms, so I need something that can move in and out of a 5-10cm range quickly and repeat within those sorts of timescales. 
The distance the card needs to move depends on the reader model, as they have different field ranges. I want to get through the edge of the field quickly to avoid any inconsistencies in testing.
I'm able to do any programming (professional) and simple electromechanical design and build (ex-professional, now hobbyist). I only need to build one, it doesn't have to be particularly robust, but it does need to be fairly accurate with regard to the timings to do the second test.
What I've done so far:
I've built one version already using a Raspberry Pi, GPIO, a stepper motor with an aluminium arm screwed to a wheel.  It works, but it's a bit jerky and too slow, even with a 30cm arm to amplify the motion. It will probably do for the repeat test, but it's not time-accurate enough to do the timing tests.
My other design ideas were: 

Servo (are these also slow?)
Solenoid (fast, but too limited range? and might cause EM?)
Motor (too uncontrollable, and will require too much mechanical work for me)
Rotating drum (fast, stable, but cannot control mark-space ratio)

I'm not a electro-mechanical design expert, so I'm wondering if I'm missing an electrical device or mechanical design which can do this more easily.

A:

I'd go for a linear axis. The cheapest version could be from a printer or you buy a small belt and two gears. A brushless DC would however fit better in this scenario. Such systems are easily faster than a normal user and easy to control. 

