Q:

Can't get self_collide working

arm.worldHi everybody,
I'm building a simple arm robot. I built a world containing the ground, a sun and my arm. Then I simply launch the world using the command "gazebo arm.world" and let my arm robot fall down. But the several links of the robot don't collide. I put the tag "<self_collide>" to "true" in my arm model and I also tried to use a model_plugin to programmatically set the "self_collide" attribute for each link to "true".
Does anyone have an idea why there is no collision ? (I looked with the view->collision but nothing happens).  Could it be because my links don't have any inertial properties ?
I just need the two fingers of the arm to collide together but have no idea how to process...
Cheers,
Debz

Originally posted by debz on Gazebo Answers with karma: 198 on 2015-08-12
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by chapulina on 2015-08-12:
You say nothing happens when you do view->collisions - are you sure your model has collisions? You should see orange transparent representations of them. Maybe try making the model itself transparent so its easier to see collisions.
Comment by debz on 2015-08-14:
Yes I did exactly what you said (view -> transparent and collisions). But nothing seems to happen. I actually would like the two fingers to be not able to get through each other (like in a real world). I know that two links connected by a joint will never collide, but here it is not the case...
Comment by chapulina on 2015-08-14:
So it seems like you haven't added collisions to your model's SDF. Try adding some collision elements?
Comment by debz on 2015-08-17:
Yes I did ! I added the code of the world I did in my question.

A:

Ok, I solved this.
The tag <self_collide>1</self_collide> had to be added in the two links of the two fingers.
I read in the documentation that it was possible to declare it for the entire model, but it is not !

Originally posted by debz with karma: 198 on 2015-08-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

