Q:

How to recursive mark ROS_NOBUILD with rosmake --mark-installed?

Hi,
I have been testing ROS in openSUSE (successfully so far) using a system wide installation (for multiple users). Since this is a system installation, it is not writable by regular users. As such, to prevent built packages from being built again, I am using the --mark-installed option (to add a ROS_NOBUILD file upon completion).
The problem is that the ROS_NOBUILD file is added only to the packages I pass as argument to the rosmake command. All dependencies that are built do not get the --mark-installed option by default, which is my desired behavior. Is there a way to make it happen?
Otherwise I have to either rosmake each and every needed package, or add the ROS_NOBUILD by hand to every built package.
Thanks and regards,
Hugo Costelha

Originally posted by hcostelha on ROS Answers with karma: 230 on 2011-08-04
Post score: 2

A:

You may want to look at the rosprotect tool if you wish to mark a installation tree as no build:
http://www.ros.org/wiki/eros_python_tools/rosprotect

Originally posted by kwc with karma: 12244 on 2011-08-04
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by tfoote on 2011-08-09:
Yeah, the current design is to allow symmetry with the --unmark-installed option.  In the unmark case the specifics do matter.
Comment by hcostelha on 2011-08-05:
Ok, thanks. Nevertheless, I think that marking (all) successful builds with ROS_NOBUILD when using rosmake would be an interesting/desired feature.
Comment by Daniel Stonier on 2011-08-04:
The python tools in eros' diamondback tag will still work for electric, I've just held off tagging it while electric is beta as there's a fair few things I need to do in other areas.
Comment by hcostelha on 2011-08-04:
Thanks for your answer but I am testing with the electric distribution, and eros_python_tools only as a tag for diamondback. Nevertheless, I think that making the switch recursive would be a better option.

