Q:

How to make an "invisible line following robot"?

I would like to build a robot which follows a virtual path (Not a visible path like a 'black line on a white surface', etc).
I'm just enthusiastic by seeing some sci-fi videos which show robots carry goods and materials in a crowded place. And they really don't follow a physical line. They sense obstacles, depth, etc.  
I would like to build one such robot which follows a specific (virtual)  path from point A to B.
I have tried a couple of things:

Using a magnetic "Hall effect" sensor on the robot and wire carrying current (beneath the table). The problem here was that the vicinity of the hall effect sensor is so small (< 2cms) that it is very difficult to judge whether robot is on the line or off the line. Even using series of magnets couldn't solve this issue, as my table is 1 inch thick. So this idea flopped :P
Using an ultraviolet paint (on a line) and using UV leds on the robot as sensors. This will give more Zig-Zag motion for the robot. And due to potential threats of using UV light source, even this idea flopped :P

I finally thought of having a camera on top and using image processing algorithms to see whether robot is on the line or diverging.
Is there any better solution than this? Really looking for some creative and simple solutions. :)

A:

There are many possible ways to approach this problem, and they all depend on the material available and the expertise of the robot builder.
In short, the criteria is that:

The robot must get from point A to B following a pre-defined path.
The path taken must not follow a line visible to the human eye.

Depending on the length of the path, using encoders could be sufficient.  However, it should be noted that due to physical inaccuracy, drift makes odometry (what we call using encoders to measure distance) impractical for long distances.  However, this is easy for short distances, and should be at least considered.
If the distance is too far for only odometry, one should consider using some sensor to measure turns (for instance, a gyroscope or compass).  Turns tend to introduce the most error in odometry (measuring along a straight line doesn't have too much error), so using a sensor for turns can sometimes make odometry a viable solution.
If odometry or odometry + sensed turning doesn't work, then we get to be creative.  If you want the robot to follow a path composed of mostly straight segments, you could place IR LEDs at given "waypoints" on the table, and have the robot sense those LEDs and drive towards each waypoint in series.
However, that still leaves some visual marking on the table (although it could be disguised to some extent), and it would be great to be able to do without that.  Another approach would be to use laser pointers shining parallel to the surface of the table, but a few inches above the table.  The robot could use a photoresistor to detect when it crosses a laser, and this could let it know when to turn.
All-in-all, I think that the odometry augmented with an angle sensor is probably the best bet for your robot, at least with the way you have described it.  I may be able to think of more options, but that's all I see right now.
Just curious--why do you want the line to be invisible?  Knowing why could open up some more possibilities.

