Q:

Ros is permenantly installed after following the installation steps?

Hey, i wanted to ask when i follow the installation steps given on the site, i execute the commands" Ubuntu install of ROS Jade" and when i reach the end do i need to verify that ros is installed? When i close the terminal ROS vanishes? How can i know that whenever i open UBUNTU Ros will be installed?
Because when i go through the steps and verify by typing "ros versionros" it says"unversioned" and when i close and open terminal again it says"command ros not found" i know it maybe a silly question but i am a newbie:)

Originally posted by Knowledge on ROS Answers with karma: 31 on 2016-03-02
Post score: 0

A:

Once you've installed ROS via apt-get, it is permanently installed.
Note that the environment setup instructions are critical. Commands like "roscore" won't be available unless you've properly "sourced" a setup.bash file. These setup.bash files automatically control a variety of ROS environment variables, and some non-ROS environment variables as well. These environment variables are critical to ROS functionality. Every terminal you open has a different set of environment variables. Meaning, you'll need to "source" a setup.bash file in every terminal you want to use ROS in. The following commands from the installation instructions are actually modify your user's "~/.bashrc" file to force the primary ROS Jade setup.bash file to be "sourced" every time the "~/.bashrc" file is sourced.
echo "source /opt/ros/jade/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc

Finally note that the "~/.bashrc" file is automatically sourced every time you open a new terminal. Thus if you run the commands above, every terminal should be able to use ROS commands.
Don't worry about the rosversion ros returning <unversioned>. That command used to work, but now AFAIK, ROS versions are no longer numbered. Instead, you should use rosversion -d to see which version of ROS you are using.

Originally posted by jarvisschultz with karma: 9031 on 2016-03-02
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Knowledge on 2016-03-02:
thanks it says "jade" when i type "rosversion -d", this means now it is permanently installed?
Comment by jarvisschultz on 2016-03-03:
yes                       .

