Q:

Any idea to implement a generic controller for a Quadcopter?

I m trying right now to implement a quadcopter. I wrote the URDF file for defining the flying robot and it moves using odometry's informations pretty well in Rviz.
But here the first problem.
I m using the move_base as a controller to move the quadcopter around but trying to put some goals in the free space (with a predefined height) it is going to move on a planar surface even if in the move_base one could set the robot as holonomic (free to move on all 6 DOF).
My idea was to define one more frame (/frame_footprint) or "the shadow" of the robot the moves always in the plane and let it controlling by move_base pkg which works pretty good (see the following image):

With another transformation I would move the last frame (/frame_link) in respect of /base_footprint. Since it can rotate and move on the z axis it will take as input the height of the copter.
But now I have the first question:
How can I control the height? Are there some controller in ROS for a 6DOF flying robot?
Any suggestion for a controller?

Originally posted by Andromeda on ROS Answers with karma: 893 on 2014-09-02
Post score: 1

A:

hector_quadrotor provides what you describe (controller, URDF model and more, like complete gazebo simulation including dynamics), so I´d recommend taking a look at that. As demonstrated in the indoor SLAM demo video, most capabilities required for indoor navigation as required by move_base are already available, so it should be relatively easy to create a move_base config. Unfortunately I´m not aware of an existing one.

Originally posted by Stefan Kohlbrecher with karma: 24361 on 2014-09-03
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by Andromeda on 2014-09-03:
Vielen Dank Stefan!
That's what i wanted!!
Comment by Andromeda on 2014-09-09:
Hi,
the code is really difficult to understand. There are some guidelines or documents that describe how you developed such a package?
Regards

