Q:

Is it possible to use Fuerte packages in Hydro?

I need some knowledge and clarification from people who know ROS better than I do.
I've been trying to use camera_pose_calibration with no success.  I've tried a lot of different things including overlaying a fork which is commonly cited to help fix problems.  Still, nothing.
So after wrestling with the same problem for a while I decided to go look at the Fuerte --> Groovy migration page to get some clues.   In it, it says that catkin packages (Groovy and later) cannot depend on rosbuild based packages.  Right now our lab computer has Fuerte, Groovy, and Hydro installed with one other student and I switching between Groovy and Hydro when we need to.  We switch the sourcing in the .bashrc and then continue on our way.
However, there is a guide to switching from rosbuild to catkin. If I'm understanding this correctly, then there should be a way to take a Fuerte package and make it usable in Hydro.  However, my question would be a) is there a program to automate this and b) assuming I have to do it myself, how difficult would it be?
http://wiki.ros.org/groovy#Migrating
http://wiki.ros.org/camera_pose_calibration
http://wiki.ros.org/catkin/migrating_from_rosbuild
By the way, if there are common AR or tag-style stacks that allow one to calibration multiple Kinects to one world frame I'm all ears.  Right now I'm stuck.

Originally posted by Athoesen on ROS Answers with karma: 429 on 2014-01-21
Post score: 3

A:

Generally you don't have to switch from rosbuild to catkin when using Hydro. It is still perfectly fine to build your rosbuild package using rosmake. That is not only the case for Groovy and Hydro but will also possible in Indigo (and very likely future releases as well).
The only effort necessary would be to catch up with changes in the packages your code depends on.
The only restriction for rosbuild packages is that you can not release the package anymore and the ROS buildfarm will not create Debian packages for you.

Originally posted by Dirk Thomas with karma: 16276 on 2014-01-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

