Q:

What is the direction of current flowing through the freewheeling diodes in H-bridge if I use BJT?

I am new to electronics.the question is buzzing in my head since i first saw the H bridge configuration.please answer the question briefly

A:

Basically (in reality anything have a sligth aspeact of everything else, nothing is ideal) the DC motor is mainly inductance in serie with small resistance.
Your typical use is close Q2+Q3 and send PWM to Q1+Q4 (or vice versa).
When PWN is on, Q1+Q4 are open and current goes to DC motor from left to rigth. It start to rotate (or increase rotation when rotating) (slowly as incductace resist change of current, mechanical inertia also works against change). Nothing fancy here. Current goes PWR-Q1-DC-Q4-GND
Then the PWM goes down, Q1+Q4 closes, but morot is rotating (mechanical inertia) and its inductance tries to force current thru from left to right. At the moment it behave as dynamo (or a battery) and voltage goes so high so to force the current of the same value and direction. 
And now the diodes kick in. On DC there is - on the left and + on the right (as on baterry forcing the current the same way) and when it reach some limit D2 opens (as there is minus under GND 0 V voltage on the DC left) and the D3 opens (as there is voltage higher than PWR on DC right) and the current flows thru DC in the same way back to main battery. GND-D2-DC-D3-PWR.
But the DC (and everything else) have some resistance, which burns the energy and its inductance have only limited capacity (even if enforced by mechanical inertia of rotating motor) so the current goes slowly down (and will stop eventually as the DC motor would slower so much, that there would be not enought voltage to open diodes and overcome main battery at the same time).
But your PWM goes up again much sooner thant this stop happens, so the DC just slows a little and those Q1 and Q4 opens and main battery suplies current again which forces the DC to rotate faster.
The rate (speed) of PWM is so fast, that mechanical inertia makes that invisible and only statistical difference matters here.
Dependind on the time the PWM is on(up) and time it is off(down) the DC motor have just part of the maximal possible power and so its rotation is slower then maximal possible. As on open Q1+Q4 there is full current from battery it have much better force to move, than if you limit the current with eq. resistor. (if goes full strenght for moment, then no strenght at all instead of going only half streng all the time - so it is able to overcome more resist of environment, even if it is not able to rotate fast) 

