Q:

Demo for wf_simulator advanced options

Hello @TakaHoribe,
Nice work with the wf_simulator. I would like to know the scientific bases, if there are papers or articles that could help understand the different simulation models (based on delays introduced).
Also if there is a tutorial explaining how to tune the wf_simulator parameter.
Thanks.

Originally posted by Hatem on ROS Answers with karma: 443 on 2021-01-15
Post score: 0

A:

@Hatem, Thanks for your question. Unfortunately, there is no document or academic papers for the vehicle model in wf_simulator.
I will write a detailed explanation below.

The IDEAL_TWIST model drives the vehicle according to the indicated twist command. The vehicle position and attitude are calculated as the integrals of twist.linear.x and twist.angular.z, respectively.

In the IDEAL_STEER model, the vehicle is driven according to the control_cmd commands (steering and velocity). wheelbase parameter is required to convert from steering to angular velocity using the two-wheel kinematics model.

The DELAY_TWIST model uses a first-order delay model to approximate the response of the twist command to vx and wz. There are time constant and time delay parameters for the delay model.

The DELAY_STEER, like DELAY_TWIST, approximates the response to control_cmd with a first-order delay model.

These delay models are the most common and simplest modeling methods and are useful for verifying the vibration and stability of closed-loop systems. You can estimate these delay parameters from the actual vehicle data. There are some pages describing the 1st order + time delay model, for example, here.

The CONST_ACCEL_TWIST is a slightly special model that basically follows the velocity indication ideally, but the velocity changes with a fixed acceleration value. Therefore, there is no sudden start or stop. This model has been in wf_simulator for a long time and is used when you want to reproduce simpler and slightly more realistic behavior than the DELAY model.

I hope this could help your work. Please let me know if there is any other information you would like to know.

Originally posted by TakaHoribe with karma: 181 on 2021-01-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Hatem on 2021-01-18:
@TakaHoribe - san, Thank you very much.
That is very useful.

