Q:

Best practices for launching ROS on startup

What are the current recommendations for starting a ROS Launch when the computer first comes online?  Preferably, I'm looking for something that doesn't run as root and can happen without a user logging in, but I'm open to hearing all current recommendations.  Is rc.local a good fit?  What are some complications that can occur?

Originally posted by Chad Rockey on ROS Answers with karma: 4541 on 2011-08-15
Post score: 8

Original comments
Comment by Brian Gerkey on 2011-08-15:
The answer to this question should end up listed http://www.ros.org/wiki/BestPractices.

A:

I think the best approach would be to follow the example of turtlebot for now.
In the turtlebot system, there is a "minimal.launch" file that can be brought up as a service at system boot.  The UID/GID is set to "turtlebot" at the launch.
You can find the upstart script in the Turtlebot Repository
Minimal is the least amount of hardware that you need running in order for the robot to function.  It is basically the common functionality for any application that you would need to run on the robot.
In the example of turtlebot, this includes:

Loading the URDF file and other parameters
Starting the App manager
Starting state_publisher, diagnostics, and diagnostic_aggregator

From here, you can launch additional apps as necessary.
EDIT: I would like to add that taking your robot from the construction/testing phase to a more research-oriented phase should probably also involve starting to use app_manager and diagnostics.

Originally posted by mjcarroll with karma: 6414 on 2011-08-15
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 5

Original comments
Comment by mjcarroll on 2011-08-16:
I'm doing some work on getting app_manager and diagnostics running on one of our platforms in the next few weeks.  I'll try to document the process so that we can come up with some sort of format "best practice" for how this should be done.  Input is always appreciated.
Comment by Raza Rizvi on 2022-01-19:
The Turtlebot Repository is not accessible now.
I wanted to have a look at the script if you can provide me.

