Q:

How can I use the pen Node on my custom robot in webots?

I am starting to attempt a new project about a mechanical arm using a pen to draw random things as I move the robot's arm.
so to do that Webots already has a node named "Pen"
(Webots doc,
and this is
an example project by cyberbotics)
which I think I can use for this project, But I don't know what is the proper way of attaching this node to my custom robot or whether it is possible even to get me started for my project. let alone about the procedures for doing so.
edit:
warning: if you happen to know a tutorial or a platform that includes all the procedures, if you share it, it would be more convenient and less time-consuming. if there isn't any continue to read the demanded details which are included below to solve the problem together, thanks for your patience.
what I have done so far
here's a scene of a trial error of mine to make this node work.

found the pen node in the base nodes.
Although it seems to be fairly easily attached, it is not working.
these are the other attributes that might cause issues.

according to Webots doc:

"In order to be paintable, an object should be made up of a Solid node containing a Shape with a valid Geometry and an ImageTexture. The painted layer is applied over the texture without modifying it."

I added another node from Solid and added a plane Geometry to its Shape, as you can see in the image below,

so another thing that should be added to the project tree is the ImageTexture node which I tried adding from the appearance attribute just a basic Appearance value, and then adding the ImageTexture to the Texture.

but it doesn't seem to be working still.
if you see any issues with my procedure or you know how to add this Node to the project please share some screenshots so we can follow the steps.
thank you for your guidance!

A:

firstly I have to say I'll make a youtube tutorial video on how to do this complete procedure for future students wondering about this problem.
Answer
with more tweaking on the pen node and adjusting the parameters, I found the problem to be more related to the angle or rotation of the pen node. if you want to draw something on the ground or paper which you have prepared, you should have the green arrow (x-axis in my case) of the pen face upwards or against the paper in the opposite direction.
you can see the parameters changed in the following image:

the translation attribute has to have some distance even small from the paper to make the ink draw or have physical contact with the ImageTexture node.
Some other changes
here's a more unrelated attribute but necessary to mention, I created a white 256x256 picture in the paint app and saved as /project/worlds/textures/whitepaper.png and linked to the ImageTexture>url.

Final results

