Q:

How to import ROS project C++ file into QT-Creator and compile them?

Hi,
I want to import my ROS project into Qt-Creator for compiling and having some gui and so on, so I've searched so much about it on th net but I couldn't find a specific answer for this question.
consider that I want to import the ROS main tutorial on ROS site into QT-Creator, for instance I want to compile my client C++ node in Qt-Creator with out compiling it in terminal window, so is there any way ?
I need more visual interface for Coding than linux text editor.
Regards

Originally posted by SeiedMilad on ROS Answers with karma: 21 on 2013-08-16
Post score: 2

A:

It's actually fairly easy to use QtCreator with ROS (I do it myself). This is a link that explains in more detail.
Briefly, you have to launch qtcreator from the terminal so that the program is aware of your environment variables ($PATH, $PYTHONPATH and so on...)
Once you've done that, go to File->Open Project and navigate to the CMakeLists.txt of your project (if you're using catkin that'd be /path/to/catkin_ws/src/CMakeLists.txt). QtCreator will then ask you to choose a build directory. Simply select the build directory inside the package (or /path/to/catkin_ws/build/ if using catkin). Finally tell QtCreator to run CMake, and voilà you're done!

Originally posted by Miguel S. with karma: 1114 on 2013-08-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 11

Original comments
Comment by redheli on 2013-08-25:
Thanks Miguel, it works!
Comment by jxl on 2013-12-12:
well,how to import ROS project python file into QT-Creator and compile them??
Comment by arennuit on 2014-08-08:
When setting things up this way the build system only creates a build directory, not a devel directory. I guess this is because catkin is not called, only CMake is, no? So what is the good practise? Work in qtcreator and then compile using catkin in a separate terminal?
Comment by Anurag VV on 2018-06-14:
I launch qtcreator from sourced terminal but still qtcreator cannot find maky catkin packages like cv_bridge, rosconsoleConfig ect. But i can build the package from terminal through catkin_make.. How is terminal able to find the packages where qtcreator is failing?

