Q:

How to maximize top speed potential for a given motor?

I have an engineering background however I am new to motors. I am looking to understand what the options exist for maximizing the top speed a motor can produce (say for an RC vehicle) without simply using the "brute force" option of "buy a bigger, heavier, more expensive motor with a higher number of maximum RPMs". Because after a point there is a step function in terms of size and cost that make selection impractical depending on application.
Seems like there is plenty of motorization in the world, so this has to be a solved problem--I just need some pointers to pursue learning more. Specifically: what options exist to maximize motor output for speed?  What are the advantages and disadvantages of each?
All useful help appreciated--thank you!! Happy to clarify if anything is not clear.

A:

Through my own research since originally posting I have learned what seems to be a rather practical answer.  While one could provide some sort of a mechanical advantage in conjunction with a motor, the reality is that it would be less efficient than simply using a larger motor.
The tradeoff is essentially that losses of a larger motor are merely electrical in nature, whereas the losses of nearly any conceivable mechanical advantage (for a specific example, let's suppose a step-up gearbox) will likely be in the form of heat loss.  Another potential "loss" could be in quality or reliability issues due to introducing more moving parts into the system.  So at the end of the day, especially from a systems-level perspective, trading up in motor size, construction, or performance will almost always provide the better option.  I say "almost always", because there very well could be an overly specific application out there where the only option is to pursue a mechanical advantage (such as if you had no control over choice of motor, or other odd physical space constraints).
In conclusion, the old adage still applies: sometimes all you need is simply a larger "hammer".

