Q:

Navigation stack parameters tuning to pass through a narrow space

I've already applied nav stack to my own robot(it's not omni, but diff)
and now I'm tuning parameters.
I'd like to make the robot to pass through a narrow space
which consits of a wall and obstacle.
However, when it comes close to the space, it stucks.
Concretely speaking, when it comes close to the narrow space,
it does the followings.

(1) goes closer to the wall or obstacle in a very low velocity(I think it's strange behavior).
(2) goes back or rotate a little.
(3) continues (1) and (2) permanently without recovery behaviors(Local minimum ??).
Actually, when I put a obstacle very close(about 20cm) to the robot,
it behaves in the manner.

I'd like to know ...
(1)What parameters are important to avoid above problems ?
(footprint, inflation_radiusm pass_distance_bias, goal_distance_bias, occdist_scale?)
(2)If it's not the parameters' problem, could you tell me how to solve it ?
Thanks in advance.

Originally posted by moyashi on ROS Answers with karma: 721 on 2013-01-16
Post score: 4

A:

Hi
I had the same problem. Finally I solved it by reducing the inflation radius in the local map, and setting the inflation radius of the global map a little higher than the radius of the robot.
Playing with this two parameters I realized that the robot wont never travel through a zone that contains an inflated obstacle of the local costmap. If you set this value high, the robot wont pass through a narrow space. The obstacles on the global costmap allows to control the distance between the trayectory and the obstacles, so that will prevent the collision.
Hope it helps you ;)

Originally posted by g.aterido with karma: 229 on 2013-01-16
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 7

Original comments
Comment by damjan on 2013-01-17:
Same thing worked for me on a Pioneer 3-DX robot. Reducing the inflation radius in the local map had by far the biggest effect on the robot's ability to pass through narrow spaces.
Comment by moyashi on 2013-01-29:
Thank you for your answers ! I reduced inflation radius from 0.5 to 0.3 and adjusted footprint very tightly, then the robot could pass through narrow space.

