Q:

High voltage motor control with arduino

I'm trying to control a higher voltage motor than an arduino can source with a pin, with an arduino. I am trying to hook it up to a transistor. The battery pack is not supposed to be 4.8V, it's 6V, 4 D batteries.
Here is the setup:

Here is the arduino code I'm trying to run to it:
int motorpin = 2;

void setup()
{
    pinMode(motorpin, OUTPUT);
}

void loop()
{
    digitalWrite(motorpin, HIGH);
    delay(500);
    digitalWrite(motorpin, LOW);
    delay(500);
}

Code gives me no errors, but no motor movement happens. What would make this work? Thanks.

A:

Your hardware configuration sounds wrong... your trying to provide all the drive current from the arduino
Given your description, your using a bipolar (NPN or PNP) transistor, I'd wire up as:

Base: To arduino
Collector: Motor -ve  (motor +ve to Vcc)
Emmitter: Ground

Alternatively:

Base: To arduino
Collector: Vcc
Emmitter: Motor +ve  (motor -ve to Ground)

This way, the processor is switching the current flow between Vcc and the motor, not supplying all the power.

A:

It's possible that this isn't working because you have blown your transistor. There are a couple of things which could have blown it:

No resistor to limit the base current
No diode to protect against back EMF from the motor

So you should add a base resistor, and a flyback diode.

I always like to add an LED to the Arduino's output too, so that I can see exactly when the output is high. And if you're doing PWM on that pin, then the brightness of the LED tells you the duty cycle.
Added:
The reason for putting the transistor below the motor is that it's easier to make it work. To switch on the transistor, I just have to push a little current through the base by bringing its voltage up higher than the emitter. But if the transistor was above the motor, and the motor was running at 12v, then it's going to be impossible for the Arduino to do this, because it can't generate a voltage high enough.
When you put the transistor above the motor, you need to add another transistor to help you deal with the large voltage required by the base.

In this circuit they're using a FET, rather than an NPN transistor, so the base is called a gate, but the same thing applies.

A:

And for the 'I'd rather be designing the sensors and grippers' of us, consider a ready made motor shield for Arduino such as:
Polulu Zumo Shield (1.2 amp motors) or the Arduino Motor Shield (2 amp motors) or the Polulu Dual Motor Driver Shield (3.0 amp motors).

