Q:

gmapping with user defined laser scan and position data

actually i want each robot to build two local maps , one which is build by its own laser scan and position while the other map from the laser scan and position achieved by other robot through wifi. now what i think , this require two gmapping algorithm having different laser messages . am i rite? is this a rite approach for global mapping? . i,m doing this for global mapping. if yes , how to modify gmapping algorithem for different laser message and position data.
thankyou

Originally posted by Xittx on ROS Answers with karma: 9 on 2013-02-19
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Xittx on 2013-02-19:
actually i want each robot to build two local maps , one which is build by its own laser scan and position while the other map from the laser scan and position achieved by other robot through wifi. now what i think , this require two gmapping algorithm having different laser messages . am i rite?
Comment by Achim on 2013-02-19:
yes, for that you have to run two gmapping algorithms. The stuff with the frame_ids, that shade explained, is important here, too. The result of the two gmapping algorithms will be two maps, which are not aligned, though...
Comment by Xittx on 2013-02-20:
thanks Achim for the response . can you tell me how to do this i have no idea of this. all i want to make user defined laser message and modify gmapping with this messag.

A:

Multiple laser message can be published but u have to make sure that they have different namespace. By default the topic name is for laser scan is "scan". You can prefix it with robot namespace like "/robot0/scan" and "/robot1/scan". Secondly for each laser scan the frame_id should be defined correctly w.r.t to respective robots. Gmapping most probably does not support laser scan from multiple sources so, if you want to build a map with multiple scan either you can write your own mapping algorithm or transform messages from one frame_id to other and then publish scan message on 1 single topic only.
Hope it helps..

Originally posted by ayush_dewan with karma: 1610 on 2013-02-19
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Xittx on 2013-02-20:
thanks for help shade. can you tell me how to change topic name and modify gmapping for it.

