Q:

What's the most effective type of rechargeable battery when taking into account size / weight / Ah?

I'm looking to build an underwater glider robot that will need to remain autonomous for long periods of time, perhaps even months. Power draw should be minimal, and I'm thinking of including some form of charging device (such as a solar charger) however I'd also like the battery capacity to be large enough so I don't hugely need to worry about this. Large current draw isn't really needed, but the battery does need to hold its charge effectively for long periods of time. Considering this is an underwater vehicle, weight and size are also a concern.
Cost isn't too much of an issue, as long as it's within reason of a hobbyist project.
I am looking to understand the pros and cons of each technology (Lead acid, LiPo, NiCad, fuel cell?), so I can decide what type of battery would be best suited to my purpose. As such, I'm looking at battery technology rather than looking for a specific shopping recommendation.

A:

The best commonly available battery technology when it comes to power density versus weight, and at reasonable cost, is LiPo.
I would prbably recommend LiFePO4 batteries. LiFePO4 are somewhat more expensive than LiPo for the same watt-hours, and weigh somewhat more, but they hold the charge better, they age much better, and they can be re-charged five to ten times more than LiPo batteries before they lose their capacity.
For both of those kinds of batteries, if weight matters, you can design the "battery enclosure" as part of your robot, and buy cells that are just the chemistry enclosed in thin insulating plastic, and build your own battery pack from those cells to fit a custom-shaped cavity in your robot. Make sure to protect the battery against over-charge / over-discharge, though, because it will ruin the battery if you don't. LiPo may even catch fire when you do, whereas LiFePO4 will not.

A:

When taking into account size / weight / Ah,
fuel cells and micro power turbines have an energy per kilogram and (with liquid fuels) an energy per liter that is an order of magnitude better than any battery.
In particular, I keep hearing that liquid methanol fuel cells are "relatively practical".
a b c d e.
And I've heard that Hyuk Kim and Seungdoo Park built a prototype diesel fuel cell.
Prototype microturbines also show promise.a b
Alas, fuel cells and micro power turbines (as well as some high-energy density batteries such as zinc-air) are not really designed for underwater vehicles -- they are designed to breathe air.

A:

Lithium Ion Polymer batteries are probably your best bet.  

They will present the least amount of magnetic interference (followed by Alkaline... NiCD interferes the most).  
Unlike the regular lithium ion cells (which are usually round), these ones will stack nicely.  
I hope you'll check the manual before trying this -- many of them are pressure tolerant.  I know of some AUV labs that just put stacks of cellphone-sized batteries into rectangular boxes filled with oil (for pressure compensation) and go with it.  For example, Autosub 6000's battery packs -- depth-rated to 6000 meters, without the aid of a cylindrical or spherical pressure housing:

(http://www.thesearethevoyages.net/jc44/autosub6000_page1.html).
For other battery technologies, you'll have to decide how to pack them into your pressure housing, which may be a bit more complicated.

