Q:

Cons and pros of wireless technologies for rescue robot

robotics enthusiasts!
I'm a member of a team which has to develop a mobile rescue robot to cooperate with firemen (e.g. on earthquake sites).
The problem we have is connection of a commander post with the robot. The robot has to enter buildings, so it is desirable that the connection can go through several decimeters of walls and have a reach 50-100 meters. On the other hand, we need to send a lot of data (camera images, point clouds, maps) which can easily eat 10 Mbps or more.
At this time we use 2.4 GHz WiFi for this connection. As for the speed, with direct visibility it seems to be sufficient, but only when a single robot is operating (we can use up to 3 non-overlapping channels, so in theory 3 robots can work together; but usually you have the environment messed up with home routers). We need at least 5 robots to be operating simultaneousely.
We have tried 5 GHz WiFi, but it has problems with penetrating walls, so it can only be used for UAVs.
My idea was to use some mobile connection technology like LTE. I found that LTE can be run on 800 MHz, which could be great for the wall penetration performance. I also found that the LTE's theoretical upload speeds (for clients) are 70 Mbps, but nobody says if it is on 2.6 GHz and how would it be changed when running LTE on 800 MHz.
Moreover, we cannot rely on some provider's coverage. I have found that you can build your own LTE transmitter for about €2000, which seems to be interesting to us. Maybe it is possible to build it even cheaper. But we think both 2.6 GHz and 800 MHz are regulated frequencies. However, the cooperation with firefighters could persuade local regulators to give an exception to us to setup our own small LTE base station.
And now to the question: do you think such setup would give better results than using WiFi? Or do you know of any other technologies that would help us to either increase the bandwidth or the wall penetration performance? What are their cons and pros?

A:

According to this report, there is a fairly predictable measurement of penetration loss in buildings as a function of radio frequency:
 
Based on that, here's a chart I made that lists the wireless technologies found in Integration of ICT in Smart Organizations (specifically, the chart on page 207):

You will probably want a technology toward the upper-right of the chart, but the decision to favor greater speed or greater signal penetration will be yours to make.
Another useful resource might be the spectral efficiency comparison table on wikipedia, which gives a more basic value of "kbps per MHz".  

