Q:

ROS Fuerte, rviz, NX on Amazon EC2 instance

Has anyone had any luck getting a Desktop-Full version of ROS up and running in the cloud?
I commissioned an Ubuntu 12.04 EC2 instance, installed ROS Fuerte on it, and have been using x2go as a graphical interface to the remote machine. TurtleSim and rxgraph run fine, but rviz segfaults with the message:
Config file '/home/ubuntu/.rviz/config' could not be opened for reading.
Segmentation fault (core dumped)
On the rviz troubleshooting page I see a reference to the fact that that running rviz remotely is not possible. I also wonder if NX clients such as x2go would even support a 3D-accelerated application like rviz.
But it would be nice to run ROS Desktop in the cloud -- maybe even create an AMI for a one-click trial of ROS. Should I give up on that dream for now?

Originally posted by isherman on ROS Answers with karma: 132 on 2012-12-02
Post score: 0

A:

There are a couple of teams running ROS in the Cloud (even in EC2 land).
I have not seen that error, but one suggestion would be to run rviz locally and just set the ROS_MASTER_URI to the machine in the cloud (assuming that you're on a vpn or have the appropriate network config).
If you really don't want to run a local rviz, I guess another option could be to use Xnest.. it will be slow, but it's one means of getting to the true issue that you're facing.
On a possibly related tip, I'd also recommend that you try using Xvfb or something similar, and create a display that you use to render the remote simulation environment. I've never used x2go, but I'm wary of rendering the desktop over the (inter)network.

Originally posted by SL Remy with karma: 2022 on 2012-12-02
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by isherman on 2012-12-02:
Thank you, good to hear it should be possible. I'll give it a try with standard X-forwarding to try and get to the root of the segfault.
Comment by Subodh Malgonde on 2018-07-26:
@isherman were you able to run rviz on AWS?

