Q:

How can I do a GUI?

Hi,
I am working on a project to create a GUI which would interact with a robot using ROS. It's something relatively new for me.
I have done the beginner tutorial for ROS. Then I have seen that maybe I could create a GUI with Qt so I have started a tutorial to use this framework. But I have seen that there is also the software framework rqt of ROS that could do a GUI. I don't understand if I can still do my GUI on Qt and then imported it in ROS to use it. Because I have tried to make the tutorial of rqt but I don't understant anything :/ I did not understand the plugins and how I am supposed to create a GUI with rqt reading the tutorial. Qt seems easier for me to use.
Can someone tell me if I can use Qt ? Or if not can someone help me to understand what I should do with rqt ? (or explain me the tutorial because I don't find where I should start and what to do with the tutorial of rqt).
Thank you,
Pierre.
EDIT : Actually, I have already a program using ROS which controls my robot. What I want is to create a GUI which would enable me to change graphically the parameters of the robot for example.

Originally posted by Piero-31 on ROS Answers with karma: 81 on 2016-06-27
Post score: 1

A:

There's nothing special about ROS that would prevent you from using any other software with it. You can use Qt or any GUI software you want with it.
Or you can use rqt, if you're having trouble with a tutorial you'll need to post a question with the specific problem you're having for someone to help. Are you working from these tutorials?

Originally posted by Airuno2L with karma: 3460 on 2016-06-27
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Piero-31 on 2016-06-27:
Thank you
Yes I am using these tutorials. But it's not just a specific problem, I just don't understand what the tutorial makes me do. For example the first one to create a plugin, I don't understand for what it is usefull, is it to create a GUI ? What are the plugins used for ? It is not clea
Comment by Piero-31 on 2016-06-27:
But if I make my GUI on Qt, how can I make it interracting with the robot on ROS ? I supposed that I have to make some changes. Is it explained somewhere ?
Comment by Kansai on 2020-08-03:
Yes, the tutorials are often a bit cryptic and hard to understand

