Q:

unmet dependencies when simulating the installation of ros-kinetic-desktop?

I am working on OS- 64 bit Ubuntu 16.04 ( LTS ) architecture - ARM64  , and trying to simulate installation of ros-kinetic-desktop using
sudo apt-get install -s ros-kinetic-desktop

However, I am ending up with the error
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
    ros-kinetic-desktop:Depends: ros-kinetic-viz but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages

Can someone please suggest what I am missing here ? Thank you
PS: I tried simulating installation of ros-base and it seems to be working fine.
Another note is that I have skipped sudo apt-get updateand just added the ROS sources list manually to software and updates .( This is to avoid updating the packages from all repositories since the system I'm working on might crash with the newer versions of these packages )

Originally posted by sam26 on ROS Answers with karma: 231 on 2017-02-27
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by tfoote on 2017-02-27:
Please provide enough information to reproduce your problem. What is your full architecture armhf or arm64? What is your OS, full version? etc.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-28:\

Another note is that I have skipped sudo apt-get updateand just added the ROS sources list manually to software and updates

So how exactly do you expect apt-get to know where to find packages then?
Also: apt-get update does not touch any packages. It just downloads the index.
Comment by sam26 on 2017-02-28:
So, when I manually add the ROS sources list to software & updates applet and hit reload, the apt-cache is loaded with the ROS packages and I am able to find them.
Comment by sam26 on 2017-02-28:
Although apt-get update alone isn't a problem, when I will perform apt-get install after updating ,there is a high chance that I end up installing the updated versions of the dependencies (system) which might not be supported by the system I'm working on.
Comment by sam26 on 2017-02-28:
Also, initially I just installed roslaunch package with the same procedure ( without explicit 'apt-get update' ) perfectly fine and then I removed the package (apt-get purge and apt-get autoremove) and checked the --simulate installation of desktop version and it didn't throw up this error then?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-28:
Ubuntu ('upstream') has a version of some of the ROS pkgs in the default repositories (see here for roslaunch fi). It could well be that that is what apt-get used when you didn't add the ROS package repositories.

A:

Note that mixing pkgs in the default repositories with those on the OSRF repositories is not supported (and if you add the ROS repositories will also not happen by default).

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2017-02-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

