Q:

Is Fuzzy logic applicable for robotics research

I found some papers that use fuzzy logic to solve robotics algorithmic problems. But I have recently been told by a few roboticists that fuzzy logic should not be used in robotics because it has recently been proven by some theoreticians to be a mathematically dubious field. And so any results that you generate using fuzzy logic in robotics will not get published. Is that true?
I find it hard to believe. Is fuzzy logic dubious with respect to applications on real-world problems, say robotics? I have talked to mathematicians and they surely believe that fuzzy logic is a robust and clever field. But then mathematicians do a lot of abstract stuff that is completely irrelevant to the real world and must not be touched. Is fuzzy logic one of those things?

A:

Fuzzy logic is definitely used in many of the control systems including but not limited to robotics. See this paper for an example: 
https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/b9a7/332b03d46b3ee08b9d113e64714e6b668601.pdf
and this:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1678143
If we consider fuzzy logic as dubious then we should do the same to probabilities. Both Fuzzy logic and Probabilities range between 0 and 1; fuzzy logic uses degrees of truth as a mathematical model of vagueness, while Probability uses mathematical model of ignorance.

A:

I would like to mention that Fuzzy logic is still an active control system used in many industry applications. 
In garbage fired power plants, concrete aggregate firing, hydraulics, and the control of flow of powdered 'fluids' in foundries to name a few. However, I will admit, I've only seen them used in 'one off' difficult to model projects, such as power plants and the such. However I have read papers like you that use it in robotics....
I would say it most certainly has it's place in research, and it is certainly used in many control areas that are near impossible to control in more traditional methods. However much like you'll see Neural Networks being sticker'd and used on/in everything under the sun. 
Fuzzy logic suffered the same fate, but fell out of interest because of it...It was thought that you could throw away all the old tools and 'save the world'. But it became a marketing failure and other methods became (stayed?) the norm.
I don't think Fuzzy logic is 'dubious' in any way. I think it goes against the methods of many designers to be exact and well...not so fuzzy, and has a poor history of being used in junk machines, and lots of burnt memories. 
It's an interesting field, one you should learn about, maybe even play around with in matlab or your flavour and learn about....if not for anything else than to say you like something else more.
Some reading materials:
NOE TS Fuzzy Modelling of Nonlinear Dynamic
Systems with Uncertainties using Symbolic
Interval-valued data
Advances in Industrial Control 
^this is more about PIDS and MPCs
Fuzzy Logic, Identification and Predictive Control
and just for sources sake, a list (in german anyways) of successful applications of Fuzzy logic (maybe just scroll through the pictures to get an idea if you can't read german). As I said, it has it's place....it's just not very big.

