Q:

Sun tracking with +/- 0.1degree accuracy?

For a school project I am looking to track the sun with +/- 0.1 degree accuracy for use with a parabolic dish reflector. Say we need a final output torque of about 20Nm, what kind of gearing/motors and feedback would you guys use to accomplish this? The sun position will be found with a solar positioning algorithm.
I am pretty new to this all but from my research stepper motors seem the easiest but brushless DC motors, from what I have read, can yield better results with smoother tracking. I am confused how you even use regular brushless dc motors to achieve precision positioning. I am aware of encoders but I don't really understand why the BLDC are preferred for this particular application, and how one would implement them.. Any ideas that can help kick start my researching?

A:

If you look a stepper motors they have not an infinite resolution: They have a fixed stepwidth, which can be break down by modulating the input signals with sin waves, but you  loose torque. 
So you say you need 20Nm torque. Which is a lot for a standalone stepper, therefor you need one with a gearbox. I suggest you buy a stepper with 0.5Nm, which is a pretty common value for a powerful stepper. Take a gearbox with 1:100. This means one revolution on your device's side mean 100 revolutions on your stepper's side. Therrefor you have a theoretical torque of 50Nm, which is a pretty good value for a 20Nm load. 
I assume your stepper has the standard resolution of 200Steps/Revolution. Now with the gearbox you  have a resolution of 20kSteps/Revolution or 0.018° per step. 
I won't suggest using microstepping for this setup, Because you already have enought resolution and you will only loose torque. 
The huge Problem now is the method how you "control" the stepper. You basically have two posibilities: Open and Closed Loop. Most of the time you use a stepper in openloop, because he usually does one step if you tell him to do one step. BUT you can "loose" step, which is caused by a to high load-torque. So open loop is not the best but the simplest solution. In closed loop you simply use an encoder on the stepper motor and control it. In your setup you don't have any dynamically changing loads, but this is your decision.
For BLCD it is basically the same. You will need a gearbox, too. There are gearless BLDC with this high torque, but they are not reasonable for this project (~5k$). The BLDC has no restriction is resolution, but it needs an encoder and a control loop. Unfortunatly I cannot tell a lot about typical values for BLDC.

