Q:

Are Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Different?

I need help in differentiating between AI and Robotics. Are AI and Robotics two different fields or is robotics a subject in AI?
I want to pursue a career in AI and Robotics. So I need your valuable suggestion. I searched the web and also some universities that I want to apply and I cannot find any such thing that I am searching for.

A:

They are different.  They are often used together, but the two are not specifically related.
Artificial Intelligence is a branch of computer science that focuses on solving problems that are traditionally difficult for computers -- tasks that become exponentially or factorially more complex for each incremental increase in the input.  An example of this would be the XKCD movie seating problem, which has 120 options for 5 people but 2,432,902,008,176,640,000 options for 20 people.  Another example would be processing the many thousands of points you'd see in a LiDAR image (like this one) in order to build a plan for navigating through an area.  The field of Artificial Intelligence attempts to find decent shortcuts to getting acceptable solutions to these types of problems; it would take far too long to evaluate each possible solution separately then pick the best one.
Robotic systems are simply mechanical systems that can measure and react to their environment in the pursuit of some goal.  This could be as simple as balancing an inverted pendulum, which requires no AI.  Alternatively, it could be as complicated as recognizing folding towels, which requires AI to sort out things like "which objects are towels", "how do I pick them up", "how do I move in order to fold them", etc.
In short, AI is one of many tools that a robotics engineer might integrate into a robotic system.

A:

AI means different things to different people and encapsulates a large number of sub-domains: vision, natural language processing, knowledge representation and engineering, machine learning, etc.  Many, if not all, areas of AI have applications to robotics; however, doing AI research does not mean that you directly, or in any way, work with robots.  Working with robots does not necessarily mean that you do artificial intelligence research, either.
Off the top of my head, here are a few good programs (my opinion, which was based off of my research and interests): Georgia Tech, MIT, CMU, Stanford, Brown, Johns Hopkins, etc. 
NB: It may be different for a master's degree, but if you're looking to do research, you shouldn't be judging schools based off the general reputation of a particular sector of the CS department.  Instead, you should be looking for specific professors with whom you would like to conduct research.  Being at a well known school is wonderful, but if the professors aren't doing what you're interested in, then you're doing yourself a disservice.   

