Q:

Rostopic weird behaviour an Raspberry

Hellow,
I installed the robot variant on my raspberry Pi. For this I had to get rid of two packages : ros_lisp and collada_urdf. Anyway...
My pi is having a very weird behaviour when publishing on some topic.
Let's say I'm publishing a Twist on the cmd_vel topic like this :
rostopic pub -r 1 cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist '{linear: {x: 1.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}}'

If I use
rostopic echo cmd_vel

I'm going to be able to see what is publish ONLY if I start publish before subscribing. If I publish a new message it is not "printed" "detected" until I stop rostopic echo and start it again.
This behaviour is global to any subscribe publish since I tried it with another node and I have the same problem.
I have no clue as from where does this problem comes from. If someone got any idea...
EDIT :
after reading this thread I must say that I started a roscore in a terminal by itself so I'm not restarting it.
EDIT 2 :
It might be relevant to say that I'm accessing the Pi through the Yaler Interface with ssh. But I'm accessing the Pi so, if I'm not mistaken, everything run on the Pi (I installed ROS through Yaler).
Thanks a lot !

Originally posted by Maya on ROS Answers with karma: 1172 on 2014-05-14
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-05-14:
Are both of these nodes running on your Pi?
Comment by Maya on 2014-05-14:
Yes both of them are running on the Pi.

A:

So I tested again today and it actually work fine...
I have no idea what was happening but my guess is that one of my friend tried to launch a roscore from a ssh session on his computer that didn't work (lots of error messages) and, even though I though it stopped cleanly, it might have not and that would be the reason. At least, this is my guess.
Sorry for the false alert and thanks a lot @ahendrix for an answer that will most certainly be useful in the future !

Originally posted by Maya with karma: 1172 on 2014-05-16
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

