Q:

ROS msgs not received if publisher starts after subscriber

Hello,
We have many ROS nodes doing a fairly standard use of the publisher/subscriber mechanism as explained in the documentation. It is clear from ROS documentation that both the publishers and the subscribers can be started at any order and ROS will connect them.
In our case, we only receive messages in the subscriber if the publisher was launched first. And even if we do so, restarting the publisher will lead to the subscriber not receiving messages any more unless we also restart the subscriber.
As far as I understand from ROS documentation, this is unexpected. Where could I start for to troubleshoot this problem?
Thanks in advanced.

Originally posted by daniel_ctae on ROS Answers with karma: 16 on 2011-06-06
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Lorenz on 2011-06-06:
Could it be a networking issue? Do your nodes run on different hosts? Is the local host name set correctly, i.e. can you ping it? You could try setting the environment variable ROS_IP to your local IP address.
Comment by Dimitar Simeonov on 2011-06-06:
are you using messages on a topic or services? I second bhaskara that if you give example it will be easier for people to help you. It sounds like it is possible that you have a logic bug, rather than a bug in the ROS communication infrastructure.
Comment by bhaskara on 2011-06-06:
Could you post a minimal example that reproduces this behavior?

A:

Hello all,
As Lorenz suggested defining the ROS_IP solved my problem. I had different network interfaces (wlan0, eth0, etc) and I had to explicitly tell ROS which one to use. This is clearly explained in http://www.ros.org/wiki/ROS/EnvironmentVariables : "This setting is only needed in situations where you have multiple addresses for a computer and need to force ROS to a particular one. "
Problem solved. Thanks for your quick support.
Daniel.

Originally posted by daniel_ctae with karma: 16 on 2011-06-07
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

