Q:

What is the required theory behind building a robotic arm?

I am currently planning on building a robotic arm. The arm's specs are as follows: 

3 'arms' with two servos each (to move the next arm)
single servo clamp
mounted on revolving turntable
turntable rotated by stepper motor
turntable mounted on baseplate by ball bearings to allow rotation
baseplate mounted on caterpillar track chassis
baseplate is smaller in length and width than caterpillar chassis

What are the required formulas in determining how much torque each servo must produce, keeping in mind that the arm must be able to lift weights of up to 1 kilogram? Also, considering that the ball bearings will take the load of the arm, how strong does the stepper have to be (just formulas, no answers)?
As far as overall dimensions are concerned, the entire assembly will be roughly 255mm x 205mm x 205mm (l x w x h). I have not finalized arm length, but the aforementioned dimensions give a general estimate as to the size. 

A:

There are 2 (or 3, depending on how the planned lifetime of the robot is) thing thats you have to consider.
Static load:
The motors stall (zero revolution) torques have to be able to hold the weight in the robots most unfavorable pose (usually the arm stretched out). You can determine this by static modelling, that involves only an equilibrium of forces for a given pose (no motion). The motors stall torques have to be at least equal (but larger is recommended) then the torques obtained from the static model.
Dynamic load:
This is the case where you need to consider both forces and motions. determine the target maximum speed of the robot for its end-effector (tool center point, TCP). Besides your mentioned maximum payload, you will need to know the moment of inertia of your payload (or you can approximate it if you consider that it is e.g. sphere shaped or square shaped). You will also need to approximate the masses and inertia of your linkages (incl. motors). These all are input to the dynamical analysis. The dynamic model calculates the motions of the centers of gravities of all your solids then attaches the necessary forces that act on them and then does a force equilibrium (as in the static model, but completed with "motion forces").
The fastest way to model the dynamics is with a software for dynamic modeling (e.g. SimMechanics package of Matlab). If not you will have to write the equations. I would recommend the Newton-Euler approach since it is the simplest. Here you can find more about it:
http://www.diag.uniroma1.it/~deluca/rob2_en/06_NewtonEulerDynamics.pdf
The static model is a subcase of your dynamic model. If in the dynamic model you set velocities and accelerations to zero you end up with a static model. However, to find the worst case pose for your robot (the one that requires the maximum amount of torque, or produced the highest force on the bearings) is not simple in the dynamic case (when you have motions, not just standstill). You need to find the worst case load pose in order to be sure that the maximum load on the bearings and maximum torque on your motors does not exceed the maximum allowable forces/torques in the datasheet of your motor/bearings Trial and error with large increments, see where the forces peak and investigate that interval with smaller increments. A more complicated approach would be to use an optimization algorithm to find which pose maximizes your torques or reaction forces...
If you want to plan the lifetime of your robot a fatigue analysis will also be required. I assume you do not need this...

