Q:

DC Motors for a ROV?

I am planning to build a homemade ROV, and I wanted to know a couple of things about the motors.  First is: Will it be Ok, if I use a brushed DC motor,  instead of a brushless motor, and is there any major disadvantages ? Second : What RPM DC motor should I aim for ? High RPM or low RPM ? Will 600rpm be enough ? The specific motor that I am talking about is    http://www.ebay.ca/itm/37mm-12V-DC-600RPM-Replacement-Torque-Gear-Box-Motor-New-/320984491847?hash=item4abc2aa747:m:mEBEQXXpqmNg4-vxmFaZP5w
Will this be a good motor for the propellers of the ROV.  I am planning to have 4 motors / propellers. Two for upward and downward thrusting,  and 2 for forward and side thrusting. The propellers that I plan to use, are basic plastic 3 blade propellers,  with diameter,  between 40mm and 50mm. 
My main question is, what RPM and torque should I aim for when choosing the DC motor ?

A:

The main differences between brushed and brushless DC motors are cost, efficiency, and complexity. Brushless motors don't have brushes (surprise!) so they don't wear down as fast as brushed motors and are more efficient. However, brushless motors are more complex both in terms of construction, but also in terms of operation. That makes them more expensive and means more sophisticated electronics and software if you want precise position and torque control. (See this page for more information).
For an ROV thruster you can probably get away with brushed motors but if you have the funding then you might want brushless instead.
As for the motor specifications, you are really talking about the initial sizing for the ROV itself. From an engineering perspective you will want to figure out what torque, power, and RPM requirements you are expecting based on the propeller design and expected thrust and in-flow, then choose a motor that meets those requirements (maximizing efficiency at the expected operating condition).
If you can get access to this article, I have included most of the equations you would need in section III-C (page 7).
I suggest taking a look at this forum, you can probably find good suggestions for particular motors, propellers, or complete off-the-shelf thrusters.

