Q:

Can RC servo motors continually rotate?

I know that RC servo motors are designed for precise movement, rather than a D.C. motor's continual rotation. Are most RC servo motors limited to movement within one rotation or can they actually be made to continually rotate? That is to say, is their movement limited to a specific arc? Or does it depend on the type of RC servo motor?
I have seen videos of industrial size steppers rotating constantly, but, more specifically, I was wondering whether a MG995 can.

I don't own any RC servo motors yet, so I can't actually test it myself. I just want to make sure before I make a purchase. I keep seeing conflicting information, for example the instructable, How to modify a RC servo motor for continuous rotation (One motor walker robot), implies that a RC servo motor will not continually rotate, else otherwise, why would there be a need to modify it?
Addendum
I have just realised, after further digging about on google, and as HighVoltage points out in their answer, that I have confused steppers and servos.
In addition, I found out how to hack the TowerPro MG995 Servo for continuous rotation.

A:

In a nutshell, servo motors and stepper motors are not technically the same things. The link you posted is only for servos and not stepper motors. A servo motor assembly does not rotate freely like a DC motor. The rotation angles are usually limited, and every servo has a "lock" position where it stays by default. A positive pulse makes it move clockwise, negative makes it move counterclockwise. Even if it needs to stay "locked", it needs a pulse at a high frequency telling it to stay there. Although the motor by itself is CAPABLE of running continuously, that's not how servos are meant to be used. Hence the need for modifications.  
Stepper motors on the other hand, as the name states, move in steps. It moves from one electromagnet to the other, in a slow, precise fashion depending on which one is energized. So if you set a very high number of "steps", and if your driving waveform is smooth enough, the motor will exhibit a near continuous rotation. Because of all the energizing needed, it needs a special driving circuit as well.

A:

Whether a motor can spin continuously depends how is is constrained by other parts of the system.
An rc servo like the MG995 will typically have a motor, a gearbox and a limited travel potentiometer to provide position feedback. It is this final component which prevents the rc-servo from rotating continuously. In the case of the MG995, it can apparently be purchased with 180 or 360 degree rotation for robotics applications.
If you remove this constraint, there may still be other constraints. If your motor is controlling the movement of a robot arm for instance, it may be constrained by mechanical end-stops on the joints, or cabling.
I once worked for a company which created a robot for de-heading fish, this had a shoulder joint which could rotate continuously, picking up each fish from one conveyor, orienting it correctly, presenting it to the cutting discs, dropping the de-headed fish onto another conveyor and then swinging around to pick up the next fish.
In order to get electrical power and control signals to the joints further down the kinematic chain, it used slip rings on the shoulder joint with some fancy power smoothing and signal correction techniques (slip rings are electrically very noisy).

