Q:

Is it better to have batteries distributed at the rotors or the center of the multicopter?

I've seen 3 approaches to mounting batteries on a multicopter:

All the batteries rigidly mounted near the center of the airframe
All the batteries in a bag hanging under the center of the airframe
Each rotor has its share of the batteries rigidly mounted near/under it. (For example, a quadcopter with 1/4 of all the batteries mounted underneath each motor).

Which design is the best, and why?
If there is no one best design, what are the advantages/tradeoffs between the designs?
Is there some other design I'm overlooking that is better in some way?
(This question focuses on multirotor flying machines.
For ground vehicles, see " Is it better to have weight distributed over the wheels or the center of the robot? ").

A:

You almost definitely want to have the battery rigidly mounted to the center of the airframe.
Mounting a battery underneath each motor (though I have never seen this) will increase the multicopter's moments of inertia, which will make it more "stable" in that it will more sluggishly lose its balance and thus give a controller more time to react. This, however, is a rather bruteforce way to go about flight stabilization.
Hanging the battery from a bag will make the flight characteristics needlessly complicated. Imagine that the "bag" is instead a rope with a weight attached to the end. What happens to the flight characteristics as the length of the rope increases?
Depending on the particular chassis design, mounting the battery rigidly can also dampen the motor vibrations, which reduces the need for heavy filtering of inertial measurements.

A:

Center, you want the moment of inertia to be as small as possible.

A:

You want to mount the batteries as close to the center of the hub and as close to the center both horizontally and vertically.  The closer it is, the less the controller has to work to keep the craft horizontally balanced and the less battery power you will use.

