Q:

What does Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) software do?

I took a course to have a better understanding of drones and their design. At the end of the course there was a test question that I got wrong and I would like to understand why. 
I was supposed to select the choices that best describe SLAM.
and the possible answers were:

Estimates the location of features in the environment? 
Controls the robot's flight through the environment?
Causes the robot to avoid obstacles in the environment?
Navigate in a cluttered environment?
Estimates the position and orientation of the robot with respect to
    the environment?

At first I knew that at least 3 and 4 were right because I watched a drone doing these things. I also thought that the last answer was linked to these two so I said yes to it too. Finally, I thought that the only thing that was still controlled by the user would be the flight...
Yet I failed again... Therefore what does Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) software do?

A:

Localization is the process of estimating the pose of the robot the environment. Number 5 in your list. Mapping is estimating the position of features in the environment. Number 1. 
2, 3, and 4 are not related to SLAM. They are all part of a complete robot system for which SLAM makes up yet another part. The software for a professional or research drone will have subsections that do flight control, obstacle avoidance, navigation (planning), SLAM, and other functions.
So you are correct in that you saw a drone do all those things, but SLAM is only one part of a robots software.
All this is a very simplistic view. In practice we never truly know the environment. We are estimating pose in the map, hoping it is the same as the environment. We build the map with feature positions but often have false readings of features, or mis-identify the same feature as being two separate ones. Few SLAM approaches consider features that move in the environment. 

A:

Which software?

Yes, It creates map from its starting point. And robot locates itself in its generated map when generating map.
It is using laser data to locate robot in map, when process starts, map's first part is the first laser scan data. When the robot moves, slam reads odometry data, and locates robot via odometry and laser. Even if odometry is poor, it corrects location via laser scan match.
No, its not a job of slam.
Avoiding obstacles is a job of navigation, The navigation must calculate best path with avoiding obstacles. Slam is Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping, it generates map and locates robot on it.
I didn't understand what you meant, yes it can explore cluttered places but navigation isn't its job.
Referring to answer 3, Thinking about environment isn't job of slam too :) It's navigation's or driving people's job.

Also if you didn't please take a look at this SLAM video.

