Q:

How do I motorize the elbow socket and other joints in a powered exo-skeleton?

How would you motorize the joints in an Iron Man suit? You need something fairly shallow, I would think, probably dual servos sitting on either side of an elbow or knee joint or either side of your hips, but how do you get motorized action there without dramatically adding to the thickness of the joint? 
Bicycle-style chain drives wouldn't work, I would think, since the length of the chain would need to vary depending on what position you're in for at least a lot of joints.
How would you motorize the joints?

A:

Addressing the shoulder joint, which is rather more complicated than elbows and knees... After this one, the other joints become far simpler to visualize or engineer.

Here is how the ball and socket shoulder joint could work:

Freedom of movement: Approximately 60 degrees end to end, all around. Less than for humans, but it can be tweaked to around 80 degrees without difficulty just by making the half-torus narrower.
The static half-torus (shown in shiny steel here) is for strength, and would be joined to the torso exoskeleton by a rigid set of struts. Half torus = torus with an inner coaxial cylinder excised, tentative diameter of cylindrical hole 145 mm.
The inner blued-steel hollow sphere is where the arm goes through, just beyond the actual shoulder. Tentative diameter of sphere 138mm, diameter of inner cylindrical hole 100 mm.
Rings of little stepper motors on both front and hidden edges of half-torus, gripping inner hollow sphere. 
Stepper motors have outer ring rotor, inner stator, and rubberized omniwheel "teeth" to move the inner sphere.
Inner sphere will of course be attached to a rigid exoskeleton matching the upper arm dimensions, up to the elbow joint. 

This is how the motors act upon the inner sphere, close up:

This is how each omniwheel stepper motor will work:

The omniwheel design is required for the teeth to allow frictionless motion axial to the rotation direction.

A:

Erik, your wish is my command:   
"High torque pancake stepper motor" comes to mind. Can you develop one, and a couple of extra's? :)  
Seriously, you're looking at a combination of technologies and disciplines.  Precision positioning of a "High torque pancake stepper motor" might be an acceptable direction, but it'll probably end up simply being the driver behind Nick Alexeev's (Terminator) hydraulics, after all, the back-hoe surely has its place in "motive amplification," if I may use the term sloppily. :) 

