Q:

How are exoskeletons controlled?

It is my understanding that there are 3 fundamental control methods : velocity, position and torque.
In exoskeletons meant to augment an healthy user's strength, a typical control method used is sensitivity amplification control, more specifically torque amplification. I am currently selecting a motor controller and trying to build a control framework for an exoskeleton that would use such a system.
According to the research that I have done, an user applied force would be detected by a sensor and the movement would then be assisted by an actuator according to this relation : (amplification ratio * detected force). In this scenario, is it fair to assume that velocity and position control are not needed?

A:

To start off I think that it's best to clarify that position, velocity, and torque control are not necessarily fundamental types of control, but common types of control mechanisms.
There's already a lot of good resources related to that such as Position Control vs Velocity Control vs Torque Control
A control algorithm's purpose is to bring the state of a system to it's goal state. If you measure the torque and control the torque only, any errors in the system will accumulate and the system's kinematics will diverge to the point of being useless. This if more of an amplifier than a control method. Typically if you're controlling something such as an exoskeleton and you want force/torque controls, they will be operating at the same time as the position controls or as an integrated control algorithm. This will make sure that the state of the controlled system continuously match that of the remote operation control.
In the case of an exoskeleton it would be possible to rely on the fact that the two systems are collocated and simply apply torque amplification of the measured arm torques to the analogous joints. This clearly has some safety concerns raised in the comments. Before embarking on controlling the whole or much of the exoskeleton I'd suggest that you start by testing out different methods on single link joints on a test bench.

