Q:

turtlebot_gazebo demo questions

I have a few questions regarding the turtlebot_gazebo demo.
1  > Does the physics simulator gazebo limit the frame rate at 25 fps?
2  > What happens when a node publishes messages to a topic faster than they are being
consumed? Do the messages wait in a queue to be consumed?
3  > And is it possible to have a computation graph where nodes are written using
different client libraries?
4  > Could you also please tell what is the meaning of the term RMS Error in gazebo?
5  > How can a node consume and produce messages to the same topic? Is it some kind of closed feedback loop control for that particular node?
Thanks and regards.

Originally posted by cassander on ROS Answers with karma: 121 on 2012-02-22
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Mac on 2012-02-22:
Shouldn't this be five questions?
Comment by bit-pirate on 2012-02-22:
I agree! At least put the common topic of all questions in the title, e.g. "turtlebot_gazebo demo details".
Comment by cassander on 2012-02-23:
@Marcus Thanks for pointing that out. Title changed )

A:

The "frame rate" of Gazebo (the rate at which it's drawn to screen) is based on your computer's hardware. Gazebo runs two threads, a physics thread and a render thread. The physics thread's update rate can be set in the .world file.

ROS queues all incoming messages until nodes are able to service those callbacks. This queue length is specified in the constructor of a subscriber.

If by "different client libraries" you mean, "can you use C++ and Python for different nodes in the same graph?", then the answer is yes. You may be some nodes in C++ and some in Python with no problem at all.

I will omit this for someone more with more Gazebo knowledge.

It is not recommended to have a node subscribe to and publish to the same topic. You should have two different topics for this. Since you cannot know which node publishes a certain message on a topic, you could cause a lot of confusion doing this.

Originally posted by DimitriProsser with karma: 11163 on 2012-02-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

