Q:

Mechanical robustness/shock resistance LiPo batteries

How mechanically robust are LiPo batteries? How much force or acceleration can they maximally withstand before failure? What is their (mechanical) shock resistance?
For some electrical components used in robots, such as IMU's, it can be found in datasheets that they can suffer mechanical failure if accelerated or loaded beyond given values. For IMU's, this is typically somewhere between $2000g$ and $10000g$ (where $1g = 9.81 m/s^2$).
I'm wondering if similar values are known for LiPo batteries, since they are known to be vulnerable components. But, is there any quantification known for their claimed vulnerability?

A:

Typically, with LiPo batteries, they don't have a hard case. The hazard comes when the battery internals get dented, which causes the battery to short out internally. LiPo batteries can dump enough current when shorted  to cause a fire and/or explode when shorted. 
The deformation that causes a dent in the battery is generally caused by a high local pressure, the same way you might crack the screen of your phone if your car keys press against it in your pocket. Actually, I would bet this is the reason that a lot of cell phones catch fire in people's pants. 
So anyways, pressure is force over some area ($P = F/A$). The force may be cause by acceleration or shock, as $F=ma$. In this instance, then, catastrophic damage would depend on how the battery hit more so than the actual shock rating. 
That is, if the battery hit on the corner, then the contact area is small, so the pressure is high, so the battery may deform. If the battery hits on its face/back/etc., then the area is large, so the pressure is low, so the battery may not deform. Again, this is how you could drop your phone on its back on the floor and the screen is fine, or you drop it on its corner and the screen cracks. 
All of this is to say that I would imagine battery manufacturers would probably not shock rate a LiPo battery because the outside of a typical LiPo cell is so soft that the impact orientation would play a very large role in whether or not  the battery fails. 
If you're concerned about battery damage then I would consider packing the battery in a hard shell. 

