Q:

What are the reasons for not having autonomous robots in our daily activities?

The fact is that the more I search the less I find autonomous (real) robots in use. The companion robots are all toys with limited useless functionality. Whenever there is a natural disaster you don’t see operational search and rescue robots in the news. Even military robots in service are all remotely controlled machines. They are not intelligent machines. Industrial robotic arms are deterministic machines. The only robots with some levels of autonomous functionality are cleaning bots, warehouse operations bots and farming robots.
On the other hand, today:

the artificial intelligence algorithms are very good in making decisions 
the sensing technologies are very sophisticated
the communication technologies are very fast
we can manufacture cheap parts
people are extremely gadget savvy

So, why there is no real robot in our day to day life? No investment in the domain? No market yet? Not enough knowledge in the domain? A missing technology? Any idea?

A:

First of all, everything is not as perfect as you think. A lot of algorithms (AI included) work well in theory, but in practice there are way too many ifs of unforeseen events. It happens so often that your algorithm works perfect in simulation and once you load it in a robot, it can't even go straight in a simple hallway.
That aside, I believe there are two main reasons:

Robots are expensive. You may have some cheap parts, but really, robots are expensive. In my lab, we took part in making robotic skins, and just that, for a human-sized robot is not cheap at all. It's cheap for an industrial robot, but I doubt you would want to pay thousands of dollars/euros for not-useless robot.
Robots are not safe. Not yet at least. If a small vacuum cleaner robot hits your leg, it won't hurt much. But if a humanoid robot crushes your hand during a hand-shake, well, no one likes to be responsible for that. Note that shortcomings of algorithms (for example sensor data processing, feature extraction and reasoning) are the main reason for this lack of safety.

So I believe, even though we are not too far from having robot friends among us, it's still too early for it.
Just to give you examples from real world:
The Nao robot, designed to be a companion (from Wikipedia) but actually mostly used for soccer games, costs about 16000$:

(source: about-robots.com)
The Enon robot, built to be a personal assistant, costs about 60000$:

The iCub humanoid costs 200000$:

(source: physorg.com)

A:

A major limiting factor to autonomous robots is intelligence. While AI has made great strides it has generally been unable to handle the complexity of the world. A common solution this problem has been to restrict autonomous robots to very simplified versions of the world.
The Roomba is a good example. It deals with the complexity of the world by essentially executing combinations of simple patterns (spirals, straight lines, etc.) where transitions between patterns are a function of obstacle presence and time. This has its benefits. For instance the Roomba only needs a hand full of bump and IR sensors to perceive its world which in turn limits the amount of processing power required.
The exception at the moment is autonomous vehicles. This comes predominantly from the large investments the military has been making over the years. Not only in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) but also ground based vehicles. Widely known examples of these investments include the DARPA Grand Challenge and DARPA Urban Challenge. Fortunately a lot of the techniques developed for these vehicles are more generally applicable. For instance the motion planning techniques are usually applicable to robots with other methods of locomotion.
Other types of autonomous robots are on the horizon because of similar investments. For instance DARPA recently announced a winner of the DARPA hand challenge and is actively promoting a contest for bipeds. Similarly companies like Boston Dynamics have done a lot to advance autonomous robots. Of course one might object that their robots (e.g. BigDog and Cheetah) are only semi-autonomous but such an objection fails to recognize just how much autonomy is still involved.

