Q:

Quadcopter navigation with obstacle avoidance?

Hi, I am trying to implement autonomous navigation with obstacle avoidance for quadcopter (which has Pixhawk). All I want to implement is quadcopter being able to move from point A to point B while avoiding obstacles. I am fine with the navigation being in 2D.
I am using Odroid  connected to Pixhawk as the main controller.
I am using Hokuyo URG-04LX-UG01 Scanning Laser Rangefinder for detecting obstacles.
What I figured out till now is there are two options to achieve navigation with obstacle avoidance. Use MAVROS somehow along with Navigation Stack / MoveIt.  I guess as I am fine with navigation in 2D Navigation Stack should be what I should use. Is that correct?
Navigation stack requires 3 sort of data to function: Sensor Data, TF & Odometry data.  I have LIDAR publishing sensor data, so thats fine.
My questions are:

How do I get TF and Odometry data (used by navigation stack) using MAVROS? What sort of data should I use? How do I do that?
Can I use MoveIt if I dont have map or anything and only 2D LIDAR data?
In future I want UAV to navigate in 3D. If answer to 2nd question is yes then should I switch to MoveIt instead?  And any links for resources to read specifically about moveit and pixhawk will be very helpful.

Thanks!

Originally posted by automate on ROS Answers with karma: 97 on 2016-01-15
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Icehawk101 on 2016-09-21:
Have you gotten any further in this? I am doing something similar
Comment by Nikka on 2017-07-11:
Hi, did you complete your project, I want to do similar kind of project, any suggestion for that ?

A:

You have to generate that. You can make a URDF model of the quadcopter or build a transform publisher to get the TF data. For the odometry you can get the imu data from /mavros/imu/data and if you have a px4flow (or knockoff) from /px4flow/raw/optical_flow_rad. I also use laser scan matching to simulate odom data using the lidar. Pass the data through an EKF or UKF (I use robot_localization) to get a combined odometry estimate.

I am planning to use moveit for 3D navigation but have only just started looking into it. If you have gotten any further in this I would like to hear about it.

Originally posted by Icehawk101 with karma: 955 on 2016-09-21
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

