Q:

SLAM with 2D map?

I'm an absolute beginner in ROS and SLAM and I need some help. I want to provide my project with SLAM to visualize my data ( 2D is enough ). I want to get data from 2D sensor ( laser or any cheap position sensor) and send this data remotely to the Master to visualize the data. The Master is a device provides (x,y,z, roll, pitch, and yaw) and the slave is quadrotor which holds the sensor. I'm using Glut and Glui as GUI. I've implemented remote virtual environment successfully. I'm using C++ in visual studio 2010, so I need to install ROS in it. I'm facing problems with the installation and I don't know even what should I need to install to carry out my project. Please suggest me from where should I start? What is the sensor that suits my project? What are the libraries should I familiarize myself with? I need only to implement SLAM not going further with theatrical concepts because this is a part of my project and not the main purpose.

Originally posted by CroCo on ROS Answers with karma: 155 on 2013-05-22
Post score: 0

A:

This probably won't be the answer you are looking for.  However, I would suggest not to use Visual Studio or even Windows, IF you want to use ROS.  ROS is still experimental in Windows and most packages that do SLAM or any type of mapping have been implemented in a Linux distribution.
I would suggest starting in Ubuntu and installing ROS in that environment.  Then using the tutorials to get familiar with ROS.  There are plenty of SLAM, Visual SLAM, and Quadrotor Packages out there.  A simple search should bring you with plenty of resources to look through.
EDIT:
I'll add my comment here regarding your question in the answers.  First, I would add Martin Gunther's answer as the correct answer.  Second, GLUT is just an visualization library and it works both in Windows and Linux.
Actually, if you don't really need ROS, you could remove the ROS parts from a package that implemented SLAM using a Laser since it is C++ code.  However, if you need ROS for the communications, Martin Gunther's answer is the most helpful.

Originally posted by astaranowicz with karma: 238 on 2013-05-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by CroCo on 2013-05-25:
@astaranowicz, thank you so much. I really envy you guys by knowing Linux. Unfortunately, I don't. Is it possible at least to connect kinect with 2d map by using slam in windows? I'm getting errors with windows. I've posted another post for this error.
Comment by astaranowicz on 2013-05-28:
Actually, I use the Microsoft Kinect SDK on Windows 7.  It allows you to read the RGB image and the Depth Map (depth information per pixel), and using OpenCV for processing.  You can try http://www.openslam.org/  as a resource.  As far as ROS, I'm at a lost with how to work with it in windows.
Comment by CroCo on 2013-05-29:
@astaranowicz, thank you so much for being helpful. So, it is enough to use OpenCV to implement SLAM after getting the data from the sensor? I made a successful connection with Kinect by using MRPT library however, I'm still struggling with SLAM problem. Could you please elaborate about it.

