Q:

Suitable gear construction for a robotic extender - plastic?

I have a rather simple setup for my robotic extender. The DC motor turns a shaft with a worm on it. The worm connects to a small worm gear (green) which itself has a small gear (red) on the same shaft connecting to a large gear (blue):

The DC motor's gearbox gives around 50-100rpm and has a stall torque of around 2kg-cm. The small gear should be around 15MM tall and the large gear should be around 45MM tall.
If the load (on the large gear) has a maximum torque of 5kg-cm and a typical torque of 3kg-cm, could the two gears be made from plastic and be of module (metric form for pitch, as @Chuck pointed out) 0.5? Is a higher module needed? How about the worm, could it be made of plastic (nylon?)?
Any help will be appreciated.
EDIT Fixed typos and updated diagram.

A:

What's the point of the middle gear? It's not doing anything for you reduction-wise because it's on a different shaft than the larger gear. 
There's an equation here that should give you the maximum allowable force for a nylon worm gear (Equation 18-4).
A torque of 5 kg-cm caused by a force at (45/2) = 22.5mm (2.25cm) means the force is 2.2 kgf. While I detest "kgf" as a force unit, it's what the formula I linked uses as an output, so this is the number you would compare to the formula there. 
If your material is nylon and the pitch diameter is fixed, then the only thing you have to play with is the gear pitch and maybe the lead angle. You haven't specified a lead angle for the worm gear so I can't go any further than this. 
Notice also Equation 18-8, the sliding speed for the worm, and the limitations that this puts on your system as well. 
I would caution against using nylon gears for any power transmission application as I've found that the gears always strip. To be fair, I've always used off-the-shelf parts (servos, reduction gears, etc.) and not something I went through the effort to design myself. 

A:

I've done a couple worm drive designs and I threw the numbers you gave (Assuming sd-spi nylatron gears) into my calculations.
I'm using AGMA 6022-C93 Worm gear design guidelines for tooth width and thickness to get the shear area. I'm assuming 3 teeth in contact and mesh efficiency around 30%.
The tooth stresses are a little more than one order of magnitude below shear strength of the plastic, which means it will probably work.
Usually one uses two different materials for the worm and gear to help with friction and wear.
The AGMA document above is worth reading if you are serious about your design. Between the sd-spi technical documents and the AGMA documents you will have all the info you need for calculations.

