Q:

Using camera on Raspberry Pi 3 running ROS::Kinetic

Hi all.
Could somebody please point me in the right direction to where I can find instructions on how I can get the pi's camera to work with ROS:Kinetic. I'm struggling to find how to get this to work

Edit:  I've just started using ROS and I want to start play around using it with cameras and lidar sensors. I've seen a lot of interesting projects using ROS and cameras, hence I want to use ROS with my raspberry pi. Is there a way to tap into the camera feed using a separate program and send the feeds to a ROS node for processing?

Originally posted by Nasher128 on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2016-12-23
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2016-12-23:
First things first: can you use the camera with any 'regular' (as far as ROS is non-regular) Linux programs? If not, putting ROS in the mix isn't going to be productive, so please figure that out first.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2016-12-24:
I'm suggesting to first get the camera work without ROS involved at all. If you can't do that, it doesn't help to complicate things by introducing nodes and drivers.
If you can use the camera (say with guvcview), then we can suggest how you could proceed.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-01-15:
Not sure you're still interested in this, but at UbiquityRobotics/raspicam_node looks related.

A:

Well you could use the Raspberry Pi Camera node that is found here:
https://github.com/UbiquityRobotics/raspicam_node
Or if you want to make life really easy for yourself you could just download a raspberry pi image that has the camera node, and all the drivers, and ROS already set up. That's available from here:
https://downloads.ubiquityrobotics.com
as always please report any bugs, issues or feature enhancements ideas at github.com/UbiquityRobotics. PRs with enhancements are particularly welcome and a friendly email to contact@ubiquityrobotics.com is always nice if something that our little project produced is useful for you.

Originally posted by DrDave with karma: 26 on 2018-01-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

