Q:

How to have a 'Auto Go Home' feature, like the DJI Phantom 3, on a project built quadcopter?

What should a quadcopter have, or have access to, in order to make this 'return home' feature work? Is GPS enough? What is the approach needed to make this happen?
I used a Arduino Mega 2560 with IMU to stable my quadcopter.

A:

I would go with one of two-ish methods to do this, but both methods require the craft to know its own position. You could do this with GPS, or an IMU, or any other means or combination of position tracking. 
Method 1 - Only track where you are and where "home" is. Use sensors to detect obstacles along your path and navigate around them as applicable. 
Method 2 - Leave "breadcrumbs". Set your first waypoint where "home" is. Every time you get X meters away from the last waypoint, set a new waypoint. Assume there is no obstacles between waypoints (set the waypoint distance small enough that this should always be true), then just follow the waypoints back. 
Note that Method 1 is just Method 2 with a very large distance setpoint.

A:

The answer to what capabilities the quadcopter to have is: link loss algorithms and navigation capacity.
Link loss procedure for a robot could be:

determine that there's a link loss (no commands for 1 second?)
try to aquire link back, for a while (a minute?) (increase altitude while circling a calm radius)
increase altitude to the Safe to Navigate altitude (which is mission plan dependent, and maybe configured before each flight).
navigate to Lat-Lon of the Home Point (using intermediate points or direct navigation, if no intermediate waypoints exist).
slowly descend to the ground after some time (depends on the endurance capability of the vehicle); doing some alerting actions (playing music, waving around, displaying lights on and off) for any possible human/lives on ground would be cool.

Important: Home Point must be chosen away from people, cars, etc. And it should also be relatively easy to retrieve the vehicle back.
This procedure must be known by crew and any parties that are around the flight zone (other modelers, aviation authorities, friends, police, etc), and Home Point (and intermediate waypoints) must be set up / controlled before each takeoff.

