Q:

Problems with robot modeling in model.sdf

Hello
I am somewhat new to Gazebo
I have modelled a biped humanoid about 5+ feet tall in standard sdf format required for gazebo.
The robot consists of simple boxes for links for collision/visual and I have assigned the joints so i can connect these links together.
There are no errors with the model nor the actual XML description. however, i have the following issues. There is no way to set the joints so they are stiff (especially at the hips and knees level). When i let the robot stand it collapses to the ground shortly after due to wobbling.
i have set "effort" "friction" "damping' values to keep the robot from collapsing but its been useless.
I have seen the DRC robot's model.sdf but there's is it does not help.
Is there a way to keep the robot from collapsing?
Any help is greatly appreciated. Thank you for your time

Originally posted by nordegren on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2013-01-03
Post score: 0

A:

It appears the joints of your robot do not have controllers that apply torques/efforts to them. You could write your own plugin for applying such forces (see this gazebo tutorial).
A simpler option is the use of existing controller plugins, similar to how it is done on the drc robot. That model is a URDF model however, so I am not totally sure you can apply things to your pure SDF.
The simplest option is to use per joint position PID controllers as it is done in the atlas_position_controllers.launch launch file. This gives you one '/[joint_controller_name]/command' topic per joint that listens to std_msgs/Float64 position commands.
Another option is the use of of whole body trajectory action controller as it is currently done in the default atlas.launch file, which in turn includes atlas_bringup.launch.
It's recommended you have a look at the drcsim tutorials, those show some basics of how a robot like yours can be controlled (no fancy walking or whole body control available though, all drc teams are busy working on that ;) ).

Originally posted by Stefan Kohlbrecher with karma: 24361 on 2013-01-04
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

