Q:

Track a moving object

If this has already been answered, by all means please point me to it.
I am in the process of building a quadcopter which I eventually plan to run autonomously by allowing it to track an object and take a video feed of it moving.
GPS is one of the options I've considered, basically:

GPS antena on moving object (person, car, bike, surfer)
GPS antena on quadcopter
Radio to transmit coordinates from moving object to quad copter

Some of the challenges I can foresee are

Line of sight for camera. How does the camera know exactly where to point?
Angle, how can I pre-program the quad to always record, say... 10m to the right of the moving object, or even better, program a set of angles to record from whilst keeping up with the object
GPS accuracy, what happens if the GPS lock is weak?

What are some of my other options? I saw this TED Talk where the quads are following a ball shaped sensor? I believe it uses Kinect cameras and lots of them which is not really an option for this challenge.
So I'm open to hearing some ideas before I start research and development of these features.

A:

A Vicon motion capture system system is used in the TED Talk that you referenced. It is similar to a Kinect in that gives the 3D coordinates of any object being tracked within its field of view. Like the Kinect it uses IR, but uses IR reflective balls attached to the quadrotor and the presenters pointer to identify and track objects. Not to mention it is a considerably more expensive system.
Systems like Vicon and the Kinect do not work outdoors because they use IR and the sun blinds them. The GPS solution you propose is a common approach to this problem for outdoor venues. Another approach might be to use Quuppa, an RF based motion capture system.
Regardless of which tracking method you use, once you know the position of the robot and the target the problem of calculating the direction to the target, or ahead of it, is a basic geometric problem. Subtracting the robot position from the target position will give you the direction to point the camera. To track a few feet ahead of the target you would first add vector to the target position representing the direction of travel and lead distance (10m in your example).
If you don't actually need to know the location of the robot, only its relative position to the target, then you could use computer vision techniques to track the target and move with it. Of course you will need to avoid obstacles in the process. Also the obstacles themselves could occlude your view in which case you would need some way to predict the targets movement. This could be particularly difficult to come up with if your tracking humans outdoors.
The reality is that the problem you are addressing is a highly active area of research. I know of several research groups, both in academia and industry, that are trying to address this problem. I have only scratched the surface here.

