Q:

turtlebot gmapping large area

I have tried unsuccessfully to map a large area using gmapping.  The map creation was working, and yesterday I created smaller maps.  However, today, after about 45 minutes of driving, the Turtlebot stops and I get the errors in the gmapping output: "could not get robot pose".  Also, I noticed that the create power LED is off, and in one case I got a power error on the dashboard.  The battery display showed that there was plenty of power.
Then, I turned the create back on and the robot briefly found it's pose. I started driving again, and the robot jumped off the map and I got the "out of bounds" errors in gmapping.  It seems it wasn't able to recover from that first stop.
I was trying to map a rectangular hallway area in an office building. The long edge is about 60 meters, and about 30 meters on the short edge.  I went around about 2 and 2/3 times trying to get the loop to close when the Create stopped.  So, I estimate that it traveled about 500 meters.
Do the Create's motors get hot and cause the create to shutdown?  What conditions would cause a power off?  Any insight into the practical run-time of the Turtlebot would be appreciated.
Incidentally, after the first time this happened, I changed the map resolution to 10cm, in case it was running out of map space.

Originally posted by ceverett on ROS Answers with karma: 332 on 2012-02-15
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by ceverett on 2012-02-17:
Thank you.  I was able to get each hallway in separate runs, but I never got the whole floor in a single run without costmap "out of bounds" errors or the Create powering itself off (I am still investigating why that happens).  I merged the maps as you suggested (using Gimp) and was able to load it.

A:

Although this isn't a direct solution to the root cause of your issue (Create's power down), making multiple sub-maps separately for a large area and combining later by graphic editor is a valid work-around for the completion.
In my case with turtlebot, after a long-run of gmapping (say an hour or so) the map tends to get corrupted (I see it via RViz), which made me split the large area into pieces. As long as the maps share the common "interfaces" b/w each other, combining shouldn't be a problem (although I got small pitfalls in editing .pgm files, that's another subject).

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2012-02-15
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

