Q:

Is there regulation of LiDAR in the public space?

Are there any regulations (in the US or the EU), plans to regulate or initiatives that think about the "pollution" with or amounts of laser emission in urban spaces in general and the impact it may have on health?
Given the prevalence of LiDAR in robotics and autonomous vehicles - for navigation, mapping or collision detection - I've come to worry about the safety aspect of such vast amounts of laser light that is emitted into the public space.
I know that LiDAR scanners are usually "eye safe" and infrared, but the human eye isn't the only optical sensor on earth and to other non-human participants in traffic, an array of laser sources on an autonomous vehicle (AV) or other robotic or automatic objects might "look" like a "radiation porcupine". That might not be a problem today, with relatively few AVs, but might become one in the future.
That said, I've learned in a recent discussion that LiDAR, at least with autonomous vehicles, begins to fall in popularity as the technology of choice and will probably be fully replaced in driving support systems and future production model AVs. The reason: LiDAR introduces all sorts of problems with maintainability - moving parts, transparent windows, dirt, etc. - while radar reduces mechanical complexity and gives wider design choices. The impact on health of prevalent radar is another story...

A:

The radiation produced by LiDARs is just light in a specific frequency. One way to think of it is a very focused very small flashlight which only puts out one color, that we can't quite see. That color is also known as infrared, which is also known as heat.
The amount of light energy emitted by LIDAR sensors is quite small and there is not a significant worry about the accumulation. Picking a random outdoor rated sensor the SICK outdoorScan3 I see in the datasheet that is produces only 9.2mW on average.
LED headlights, the most efficient and comparable use in the range of 10-20W of power. (Xenon reference, paper on motorcycle headlights efficiency) So if you're accumulating 1000 LIDAR sensors on a car, the output would be the same as having 1 headlight on the car. Most cars have 2 headlights as well as a whole bunch more lights which will produce much more light radiation than the sensors.
Also for reference sunlight hitting the ground delivers over 1kW of light energy per square meter. Which would take over 100000 LIDARS pointing at the same square meter of space to produce the same effect. However most LIDAR sensors point outward and scan all around which means that the power is distributed around. Which means that at say 5m distance, only 3% go into a specific meter radius. And as such you're now looking at needing on the order of 3 million sensors around you at 5 meters away. Back calculating that to a 5 meter sphere you would need over 10000 sensors per square meter of that sphere, which is by multiple orders of magnitude higher than you could physically achieve.
And that's only to produce the level of light that the sun provides, which is a level of light that I am quite happy to walk around in.
As such I don't worry about any health effects of the many LIDARs that might be used in public spaces.

