Q:

What are human-friendly terms for mobile-robot orientation and relative direction of non-robot objects?

Within robotics programming, orientation is primarily given in terms of x, y, & z coordinates, from some central location.  However x, y, z coordinates aren't convenient for rapid human understanding if there are many locations from which to select (e.g., {23, 34, 45}, {34, 23, 45}, {34, 32, 45}, {23, 43, 45} is not particularly human friendly, and is highly prone to human error).  Yet more common English orientation descriptors are frequently either too wordy or too imprecise for rapid selection (e.g.,  "front-facing camera on robot 1's right front shoulder" is too wordy; but "front"/ "forward" is too imprecise - is the camera on the leading edge or is it pointing forward?)
In the naval and aeronautical fields vehicle locations are generically talked about as fore, aft (or stern), port, and starboard. While, direction of movement that is relative to the vehicle is frequently given in reference to a clockface (e.g., forward of the the fore would be "at 12", rear of the aft would be "at 6", while right of starboard and left of port would be "at 3" and "at 9", respectively).  This language supports rapid human communication that is more precise than terms such as "front" and "forward".  Are there equivalent terms within mobile robotics?

A:

Typically, a coordinate frame is placed at the robot center.  The x-axis points forward, the y-axis points left, and the z-axis points up.  Then, we measure angles with respect to the x-axis. So, a 90 degree angle would mean along the y-axis, as shown, 

So, "12" corresponds to 0 yaw, or straight forward. "9" corresponds to 90 degree yaw, or along the y-axis.  6 corresponds to 180 degree yaw, or straight back along the minus x-axis, etc. 
You are asking "How do I describe an object relative to the robot", which is the same as "how do I describe the location of the object in the robot's coordinate frame" By necessity, we consider the both to be the same, so the "driver's side" wheel is the "front left". Front because it is +X, and left because it is +Y. The cans are in "front" of the robot because they have a +X coordinate. They are "below" the robot because they have a -Z coordinate.  
It's the same as "Port", "Aft", "Starboard", because these are described with respect to the vehicle, not with respect to the observer. This is the basic definition of a Frame of Reference.

