Q:

How do I design for a target speed?

I need to make an omni wheeled robot platform (4 wheels), which should go at a minimum speed of 15 cm/s.  I have an idea for the design, but since this is my first time doing something like this I have made a lot of assumptions. 
I decided to choose the TGY-S4505B servos as my motor system. I intend to attach these servos to FXA308B wheels. Finally, I intend to power my servos with one Turnigy LSD 6.0V 2300mAh Ni-MH Flat Receiver Packs (not sure if LiPo is a better choice). I need to be able to run the servos continuously for roughly 8 minutes. You can ignore the microcontroller and other stuff, relatively speaking they will consume much less power. The robot will have four wheels (thus, four servos).
The basic specifications of each servo is:

Type: Analog
Gear train: Plastic
Bearings: Dual
Motor Type: Carbon Brushed
Weight: 40g (1.41oz)
Lead: 30cm
Torque: 3.9kg.cm @ 4.8v / 4.8kg.cm @ 6v
Speed: 0.13sec 60°@ 4.8v / 0.10 60° @ 6v

So based on my battery pack, I will be running the servos at 6V. That gives me a speed of 60 degrees per 0.10 seconds. I plan on modifying these servos for continuous rotation, and connected them directly to the wheel. Since the wheel has a diameter of ~5 cm, it has a circumference of ~15 cm. Based on these specs, it seems to me that my robot can move at roughly 15 cm/0.6 seconds, or 25 cm/s (quite fast actually). I don't intend to run it constantly at that speed, so in the 8 minute run, assume my average speed to be 20 cm/s.
Are these assumptions reasonable, and are the calculations correct?  I would really appreciate any insight, advice, recommendations, and criticisms you may have.

A:

With all you're going to invest in your robot, it's a better idea to start off with a more solid drive train than a servo.  Take a look at a DC motor with an integrated gearbox and start from there.  Your servo approach won't be as energy efficient, performant, and it won't last as long.
A great reference to start with is Building Robot Drive Trains.

