Q:

Help!: rosinstall_generator generating an empty rosinstall file

Hi Everyone,
I am trying to install the Desktop version of Hydro on Mac OS X using Homebrew. I am following the instructions as mentioned on the installation page. But when I try to generate the rosinstall file for downloading and building the ROS stack, my rosinstall_generator command for desktop version generates an empty file with following prompt: No packages/stacks left after applying the exclusions
As mentioned on the installation page, here is the command I used: rosinstall_generator desktop --rosdistro hydro --deps --dry-only > hydro-desktop-dry.rosinstall
I did install rosinstall_generator using pip in the earlier steps. Still, I tried updating it using the pip. Did anyone else face this issue? What am I missing over here?
Thanks,
Jasprit

Originally posted by jaspritsgill on ROS Answers with karma: 88 on 2013-09-29
Post score: 0

A:

You're asking for desktop with the --dry-only option.  However there are no dry packages in desktop which is why it is giving you an empty list.  You should be using --wet-only.
See the instructions here: http://wiki.ros.org/hydro/Installation/OSX/Homebrew/Source for hydro on OS X.

Originally posted by tfoote with karma: 58457 on 2013-09-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by jaspritsgill on 2013-09-30:
I am trying to build the rosbuild packages, hence --dry-only. The instructions say that for BARE-BONES no dry packages are required but desktop does. is that changed in hydo? For building catkin wrkspces I did use --wet-only. I will try proceeding if there are no packages for Desktop too.
Comment by Artem on 2013-10-01:
I am having the same issue, trying to install full-desktop. Im getting "No packages/stacks left after applying the exclusions". Is this situation normal?
Comment by jaspritsgill on 2013-10-01:
It seems so. I checked for full-desktop too and I got the same. I guess there are no dry packages for Hydro desktop, as tfoote mentioned. The installation instructions are not updated it seems. I proceeded with the installation with no dry packages and it seems to be working fine so far.
Comment by tfoote on 2013-10-01:
The instructions were out of date.  That is expected as there are no released rosbuild packages in hydro.  I've updated the instructions to make a note and remove the out of date lines.
Comment by jaspritsgill on 2013-10-03:
Thanks tfoote!

