Q:

Autonomous Navigation of a Known Map with TurtleBot Problem

Hi, I'm totally new in ROS-Groovy and turtlebot 2(Kobuki) on Ubuntu 12.04(64bit).
I followed TurtleBot tutorials, section 1 to 3 were OK. But I met some difficulties with basic tutorial about "Autonomous Navigation of a Known Map with TurtleBot".
I generated a my_map following the previous tutorial, "SLAM Map Building with TurtleBot". After that, I loaded my_map and "roslaunch turtlebot_rviz_launchers view_navigation.launch". I could Localize the TurtleBot using "2D Pose Estimate" and Teleoperation. But when I Clicked the "2D Nav Goal" button and set a Goal, my turtlebot didn't move anywhere. Can anyone help me?
I found some warnings when I ran "roslaunch turtlebot_navigation amcl_demo.launch map_file:=/tmp/my_map.yaml".
The warnings are,
: You have set map parameters, but also requested to use the static map. Your parameters will be overwritten by those given by the map server
: Trajectory Rollout planner initialized with param meter_scoring not set. Set it to true to make your settins robust against changes of costmap resolution.
And I also checked the status by "rqt -s kobuki_dashboard", after set a Goal, I found a warning that "Using odometry instead of last command" every frame.

Originally posted by Nic on ROS Answers with karma: 18 on 2013-06-20
Post score: 0

A:

Hi, I solved it by myself.
The reason why I could not use the autonomously plan is that I did not stop the teleoperation when I use the "2D Nav Goal" command,
roslaunch turtlebot_teleop keyboard_teleop.launch
Then, after "2D Pose Estimate" and localization by teleoperation, I should stop the teleoperation command.
After stopping teleoperation, "2D Nav Goal" command works well!

Originally posted by Nic with karma: 18 on 2013-06-30
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by MatthiasMayr on 2013-10-23:
I just encountered the same problem and I just started teleop, because it was mentioned, that one should do that. 1
Maybe it should be mentioned on the wiki page, that one has to use roslaunch kobuki_keyop keyop.launch as teleoperation.
Comment by bit-pirate on 2013-10-23:
I filled an issue on GitHub: https://github.com/turtlebot/turtlebot/issues/105 Please feel free to report future software problems there.

