Q:

Releasing Packages for Different OS Flavors

What is the process that defines what OSs the build farm builds packages for?
Example: In kinetic, cartographer is available for Ubuntu Default but cartographer is not available for Debian Jessie.
There doesn't seem to be any magic flags in the rosdistro entry.
Note: cartographer is just an example, I care more about the actual process.

Originally posted by David Lu on ROS Answers with karma: 10932 on 2018-04-12
Post score: 1

A:

I'll take a shot at an answer, although I expect @nuclearsandwich will weigh in later.
Blacklisting is done in the ros_buildfarm_config repo (production branch in this case). Not in the rosdistro. For cartographer specifically, see ros-infrastructure/ros_buildfarm_config#110. Reason given for blacklisting that package on Jessie:

cartographer's dependency libceres-dev doesnt exist on Debian Jessie and we don't plan to backport it as Jessie is almost EOL

The complete blacklist for Jessie is maintained here. See REP-137: Specification/Release build file for the spec on the blacklist.
In general Bloom generates release artefacts for all supported configured target platforms (generators here). As @nuclearsandwich writes:

The release artifacts bloom generates are determined by the actions field of each track in tracks.yaml. If you wish to change what is generated you can modify that list of commands.

Afaik you cannot ask Bloom to not generate for something. Blacklisting is done afterwards.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-04-13
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by nuclearsandwich on 2018-04-13:
The release artifacts bloom generates are determined by the actions field of each track in tracks.yaml. If you wish to change what is generated you can modify that list of commands. However, if your release repo is public it is nice to generate the info so others can build packages you may not.
Comment by nuclearsandwich on 2018-04-13:
@gvdhoorn covered the salient points excellently. I have very little to add. :)
Comment by David Lu on 2018-04-13:
Perfect. Thanks for the thorough answers.

