Q:

Transfert specific topics from an ROS master to another

Hi all!
i was working with two computers using the same ROS master as described at this it is working well but the problem is that i want to transfer only some specific topics and not all topics. since the two packages i am using in each computer publish on tf, i have problem while recording the bag file. can someone suggest a better way to do it? what i mean is that i run ROSCORE in each of two machines(computers) and i send the topics that i wanted from a master to another.
PS: i was about to use the foreign_relay package but it seems it is not possible to download it(if someone could give me the link to download it, that would be perfect :D)
Thanks! all help will be welcome.

Originally posted by milorenus on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2015-01-19
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Wolf on 2015-01-20:
Usually the two tf publishers should not interfere, it's very common to have a huge amount of tf broadcasters. Could you describe a bit more want your issue is with this?
Comment by Wolf on 2015-01-20:
Note that for tf it is very important that clocks of both machines are in sync so make sure  there is an NTP connection between both comuters...

A:

There are a few implementations of Multimaster functionality out there, but none has really reached the status of being "the recommended implementation". Other examples beyond the one @ahendrix mentioned are:

ROCON Multimaster
topic_proxy (We use that and it works for us)
multimaster_fkie

If you google for "multimaster ros" you'll also find other material, such as the Multimaster SIG group

Originally posted by Stefan Kohlbrecher with karma: 24361 on 2015-01-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by milorenus on 2015-01-20:
Thank you for the answer, can you give me a quick explain of how to use the topic_proxy? that would be very helpful to me.
Comment by Stefan Kohlbrecher on 2015-01-26:
The README at github has a complete example. Have you tried that?
Comment by milorenus on 2015-01-26:
Thanks for the help but i figured out how to deal with it using the foreign relay package, even though it is not the best solution.
Keep it up :)

