Q:

Multiple limbs on small robots

Note: I'm a firmware developer experienced with sensors and networks, but not much with motors.
I am trying to build a small hobby robot, like a cat-sized spider. I am thinking of using servo motors with position control, so I don't have to use encoders to know where the motor is. Assuming six legs (I know, spiders have eight), with each leg being able to move up-down and left-right, that already translates to 12 motors. If you want to bend a knee, that gets the number to 18.
18 motors on such a small robot is overkill, isn't it?
I have thought of a couple of ideas, but not having a strong mechanical background, I cannot tell whether they are doable/sane.
One of my ideas is to use a magnet on the end of the limb (the end inside the chassis) and a small permanent magnet above it. The magnets attract each other and this keeps the limb firm under the weight of the robot. A stronger controllable magnet (a coil) would attract the limb even more and let it lift in the air. The following drawing may help:

This would allow the up-down movement of the leg, and a servo would control its left-right movement. However, I fear that such a system would not be strong enough to hold under the weight of the robot, or whether a reasonable coil would be compact enough.
In short, my question is, how can I control six legs each with two or three degrees of freedom with a reasonable number of motors? Is having one motor per degree of freedom the only possibility?

A:

I do not believe that an actual spider has the degrees of freedom you are considering. Yes, each leg can respond to a stimulus but in the case of ambulatory motion, there is some repetitive motion of the legs. Your example of solenoids, or what I call half-axis may be a solution. Another solution may be to incorporate cams or slow responsive joints. With the slow responsive joints, one can see how the speed of motor motion could cause different leg response... And still another possible solution would have a single motor drive a pair of legs or more... And still even another possible solution is to run two servo motors coupled where the pair can run multiple joints but if the motors are out of "phase" different motions can occur allowing you to mimic more axis motion.  

