Q:

ros2 dds implementations

The ROS2 eloquent installation instructions say the default DDS implementation is eProsima's Fast RTPS.  Similarly, the instructions for installing a new DDS implementation state that eProsima's Fast RTPS is the only one bundled with ROS2.
However, in ros2_eloquent/src generated during a vanilla install, I find eclipse_cyclonedds.
The description of different DDS implementations doesn't list cyclonedds anywhere, but the vanilla installation of eloquent does include rmw_cyclonedds_cpp alongside rmw interfaces for the other DDS implementations.
I'm not very clear on the relationship, if any, between eProssima's Fast RTPS and eclipse's cyclonedds.  I was under the impression that they are separate DDS implementations.
Is that accurate?  I may be missing something pretty fundamental here...  Or perhaps cyclonedds and its rmw interface is now sufficiently mature that it's bundled with eloquent, and I am just looking at outdated websites.

Originally posted by broomstick on ROS Answers with karma: 111 on 2020-04-13
Post score: 0

A:

I'm not very clear on the relationship, if any, between eProssima's Fast RTPS and eclipse's cyclonedds.

Apart from the fact that they both implement (partially, in the case of Fast RTPS) the DDS standard, there is none.

I was under the impression that they are separate DDS implementations.

Exactly.

Is that accurate?

Yes.

I may be missing something pretty fundamental here... Or perhaps cyclonedds and its rmw interface is now sufficiently mature that it's bundled with eloquent, and I am just looking at outdated websites.

Fast RTPS is still the default -- afaik and on 2020-04-14.
It may help if you could describe how you've installed ROS 2? Are you installing binaries (ie: .debs from the ROS 2 repositories), or building from source?

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-04-14
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by broomstick on 2020-04-14:
This answers my question.  My confusion came from the website saying only Fast RTPS was bundled with ROS2, so when I saw cyclone, I thought maybe it was some dependency of Fast RTPS.
I'm installing from source, using the .repos file and vcs to clone all the relevant repositories.  Maybe the binary installation doesn't include cyclone.  Anyway, you've cleared up my confusion.
Thanks.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-04-14:
Cyclone DDS was added to ros2.repos in ros2/ros2#787. The relevant REPs do not mention Cyclone, but it could be that they haven't been updated.
I expect @tfoote and/or @Dirk Thomas to be able to comment on this.
Comment by Dirk Thomas on 2020-06-01:
This has been updated in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/648

