Q:

example for using C++ to program Baxter robot?

Hi, I'm a beginner in ROS and Baxter. I'm thinking use c++ to program my Baxter robot but I only can found the Python example in Baxter wiki. So may I know where can find those tutorial or like an example to use C++ to program Baxter robot? Thank you!
I want to let the robot able to identify the ball's color then pick up the correct color ball.

Originally posted by Zero on ROS Answers with karma: 104 on 2016-05-17
Post score: 0

A:

AFAIK the SDK and API that Rethink has released only provides Python bindings (likely why you've only seen Python examples). However, the methods that they provide are just using simple ROS topics, services, and actions. If you want to use C++, all you need to do is create publishers, subscribers, and clients that use the appropriate communication channels (just like any other ROS node).
Another idea might include using C++ and Python simultaneously in your project. For example, in C++ you could subscribe to a camera feed and do all of your image processing. Then once you know the location of the correct color ball, you could pass that data along to a Python node (via a topic, action, or service) that uses the Rethink API to handle the arm motions.

Originally posted by jarvisschultz with karma: 9031 on 2016-05-18
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Zero on 2016-05-18:
Thank you for your idea! it's really really useful for me!
Comment by Zero on 2016-05-23:
Hi Jarvisschultz,
Can I ask you one more question?
If I want to use C++ node to do those image processing and location which was you suggest to me, it's that mean in my C++ node I had to include those relate MoveIt lib? for example, visual tools.
Comment by jarvisschultz on 2016-05-23:
MoveIt! visual tools is not for image processing. I suggest you check out the vision_opencv metapackage for using OpenCV within a ROS node.
Comment by Zero on 2016-05-23:
ok, thank you so much. Your advice always useful for me!

