Q:

what is the easiest method to plot a temperature in my pc?

After a lot of learning, I'm launching a reballing business and I feel the need to have a realtime plot of the temperatures involved (ideally 3 or 4) and I have an arduino uno and a few K type thermocouples, I was researching the subject and saw a lot of different approachs, most of them use arduinos to send serial data to a pc port, then from there they process it with phyton, other guys matlab, some use ms excel plus a free add on in vb for apps. etcetera, and now after some reading I feel overwhelmed by all the different methods, so I wonder, perhaps I'm already losing perspective here? may be there is a simple method I can use and KISS way of get it done? thank you.

A:

Looking for a open (free) source alternative is it normal to feel overwhelmed since the programs, that you can use, are really many.
Personally when I need to plot soma data coming from Arduino or Teensy on my PC I go through one of those ways:

If I want to use a programming tool Processing could be really easily implemented to show what you want. It has the same language as Arduino and the same environment. Take a look in the examples. There you can find a program that suits your needs. Since the language is the same as Arduino you have a very high portability and reconfigurability;
If I don't want to program anything, but just plot some values without loosing time, then I use Scilab. You don't need a license like Matlab, and fr plotting you have a lot of tools. This could be the way you want to go. In the Scilab package configuration there is package that listens to the serial port. You just need to write a small script to save in a array and then plot them. To open a serial port you need just three functions, really strightforward. I used it for controlling a robotic arm. I've formatted my PC due to a hardware failure, so I m sorry I cannot send you an already created script made by myself;
There are other options like gplot, octave or exceel. But if you don't want to spend more time and need a very fast solution I would go for the step #2;

Regards

