Q:

sw_urdf_exporter preview and sw crash

When I have finished to specify link and joint at sw_urdf_exporter plugin, while other settings are set to be automatic, I click preview. The green process in the bottom loads a while and SW crashes and throws error.
I check issue posted here and realize that the reference coordinate system and axis should be specified in the model before export. Am I right?
But instead, my model file type is STEP, where assembly relations, reference coordinate system and axis do not exist. So, in order to proceed with export urdf, should I add reference coordinate system and axis mannually for model?
If so, it is a pretty time-cosuming, in other words, using original assembly file which contains assembly relation is the correct way to export urdf. Am I right?   However, exporter plugin might be only fit to SW2012, original assembly is built in newer version.

Originally posted by shawnysh on ROS Answers with karma: 339 on 2017-01-10
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Panason on 2019-08-26:
no need to assign reference frame

A:

So, in order to proceed with export urdf, should I add reference coordinate system and axis mannually for model?

If you want to have joints in your exported URDF: yes.

If so, it is a pretty time-cosuming, in other words, using original assembly file which contains assembly relation is the correct way to export urdf. Am I right?

That would certainly seem to be the most straightforward way of doing it, yes.

However, exporter plugin might be only fit to SW2012, original assembly is built in newer version.

I would try the plugin with a newer version of SW. It can work, it's just not supported / recommended.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2017-01-10
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by shawnysh on 2017-01-10:
I tried the export process on SW2012 and failed, however I succeeded on SW2015 using other's PC. Maybe sth wrong with my SW2012.
Comment by shawnysh on 2017-01-10:
I asked someone, he told me that, he used to turn step file into assembly file, after adding assembly relation. If  assembly relation exists, can both reference coordinate systems and reference axes be automatic detected with plugin, without mannually specifying?

