Q:

What mechanical parts can be attached to a 28BYJ-48 stepper motor?

Sorry I am asking a mechanical question here, but, after all, where else people have experience with using motors? If there is a better forum for this, please do guide me.

Everywhere I've seen online, the stepper motor 28BYJ-48 is used in tutorials, to rotate on its own, or, at most, to spin a clothes pin attached to it. I am trying to get Arduino to work for my 10 year old kid. He's got the motor rotating, now what? How does he attach anything to it?
Don't laugh, I made him a wheel out of a raw potato. He is happy with it now. Where can I find any guidance as to what to do next?

A:

You can drill a hole to match the shaft into whatever it is and either fix it with a setscrew against the flat or glue it. Or you could glue a brass tube (hobby shop) to the shaft if you can find one that fits. The shaft is 5mm diameter, as venny says. 
Of course it's easier if you have access to a small lathe (such as Sherline or one of the small Chinese ones). 
If you need to allow for misalignment between shafts it's better to buy or make a shaft coupler such as these helical style ones: 

There are other types (some of which have a bit of backlash). You can also use a collar with setscrews, but the shaft on that motor is a bit stubby and that type of coupler allows for almost no shaft misalignment so it would jam easily (and the motor is not very powerful). The kind with backlash generally has a bit of flexible material such as urethane rubber sandwiched between two interlocking sets of fingers. 
I made a sky tracking drive using one of these cr*p motors and I just drilled out the center of a standard gear (from Stock Drive) a bit to get a slip fit and used the grub screw to secure it. The shaft is pretty stubby so it's hard to get something secured to it unless it fits very tightly or is a clamp or collet-style fixing. In my case, the gear drives a nut that works on a leadscrew. 
BTW, you might find the robotics SE useful in this kind of thing. I've not looked at it once, but those folks run into this sort of thing regularly. 

A:

The diameter of the shaft is 5mm, it sould be possible to use a 5mm propeller collet commonly used on RC airplanes, like this one:

(source: hobbyexpress.com) 
Tightening the nut secures the attached object and at the same time it clamps the collet to the shaft.
The shaft should be inserted fully into the clamp, to grip also the non-flattened portion to provide good stability.

