Q:

Solved: Problems defining large custom messages

Hey there,
I have a problem with a ROS_Node and large custom Messages. My Node shloud be capable of Publishing two ROS_Messages. These two custom Messages consist of several other custom messages to generate a deeper structur.
Example:
add_message_files(
   FILES
   A.msg
   B.msg
   C.msg
   D.msg
   ....
   MasterA.msg
   MasterB.msg
 )

The message Master.msg is dependend to A,B,C,D..... and the MasterB consits of three floats and D.
When I build the project no error is shown.
When trying to acces the Message MasterA works fine but MasterB does not show me the property of D.
Is there like a maximum number of Messages, or what could be the reason? Since Message MasterA builds fine, I think I've done everything right concerning message generation and so on..
Sorry for the bad explanation, but i don't know how to describe the problem any better.
Thank you in advance

Originally posted by MarcelKr on ROS Answers with karma: 16 on 2019-02-19
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by PeteBlackerThe3rd on 2019-02-19:
Can you show us the message definition of MasterB. Also what exactly do you mean by

MasterB does not show me the property of D

Can you access each of its members apart from the instance of D?
Comment by MarcelKr on 2019-02-20:
"Can you access each of its members apart from the instance of D?"
Yes, that was exactly my problem. The reason seemed to be, that i added D to the message definition after I builded the project for the first time.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-02-20:
@MarcelKr: please post your last edit as an answer and accept your own answer.
That way it's much clearer that you've resolved your issue.

A:

Edit: Managed to solve the problem!
The problem was, that I edited the message after I defined it. I don't know why but CMAKE seems to stick on the original definition, even after deleting the msg.h-files. After deleting the whole project and rebuilding it, everything works fine.

Originally posted by MarcelKr with karma: 16 on 2019-02-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

