Q:

Can the rate of peristaltic pump's flow be accurate across changes in fluid viscosity?

I'm building an arduino controlled pump system to be able to move fluids around. I need this to be fairly accurate, but extreme precision isn't required. Since there will be a variety of liquids moved through the pump, I've determined a peristaltic pump the best fit. But I don't think I fully understand them, and had a few questions..

Since I'll need to purge the system... Can a peristaltic pump push air? Let's assume you have a 2m of tubing, and you pump a bunch of water through it. Can you remove the tube from the water reservoir so it is open to the air, and effectively purge the system of any remaining water?
Since I want to fairly accurately measure flow, could I simply count milliseconds instead of using a flowmeter? ... Will a peristaltic pump ALWAYS pump at a constant rate, regardless of the viscosity of the fluid? That is, will maple syrup come out at the same rate as water?
Shopping question, ignore I suppose ... Anyone know where I may find a fast/high flow peristaltic pump? I'm looking to be able to pump, at a minimum, .5oz/sec
Would be determinant upon #3 ... What sort of relay would I want for toggling this on/off with an arduino?

A:

The answers to "will it work" and "will viscosity affect flow rate" is really "it depends".  
Peristaltic pumps that push air exist.
All pumps work by using low pressure to pull in fluid and high pressure to push it out.  In this case, the low pressure is the suction created when the flexible tube tries to retain its shape after being pressed by the roller.  The high pressure is created by the roller moving forward, like you would do with a tube of toothpaste.
Here's where it gets interesting.
Completely flattening the tube is a foolproof way to pump, but it shortens the life of the tube.  So, a lot of pumps take advantage of the viscosity of the fluid (the slowing down of the fluid near the walls of the tube).  All the rollers really need to do is make it easier for the fluid to flow forward than backwards.
So, the pump is actually balancing the following factors:

The ability of the tubing to regain its shape (springy-ness of the tube, affected by the fluid viscosity)
The pressure of the fluid at the pump exit
The resistance of the fluid to flowing backwards through the restricted tube (fluid viscosity, affected by the extent that the tube is constricted by the roller)

You'll have to find out whether your pump is completely flattening the tube, or just relying on water's higher viscosity in order to increase the life of the tubing.

