Q:

ROS installation troubles

Hello,
I am following the ROS installation guide for noetic on an ubuntu focal 20.04 machine. This is the second time I have done this, and before the keys were there, but now it only shows the key for the curl command and it cuts off the rest of the command for using the sudo command, which was there last time I installed it. What is the rest of that command, as the curl command is not working for me. This is the link to the instructions, specifically I am looking at the code box in section 1.3 that says curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros/rosdistro/master/ros.asc | sudo apt-key add - And the rest appears to be missing.

Originally posted by zippyzoo77 on ROS Answers with karma: 13 on 2021-06-30
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by mgruhler on 2021-07-01:\

And the rest appears to be missing.

What "rest" do you expect?

the curl command is not working for me.

Please elaborate.
The command is correct and working just fine. There is nothing missing. curl prints whatever it gets to the terminal by default, and apt-key add - means: read stdout and add that as a key. Check the manpages.

A:

Ok, so I was missing that it was all one command, and the curl command was not installed yet on my machine because it is brand new. My brain saw the line and thought two commands, my brain was incorrect on that.

Originally posted by zippyzoo77 with karma: 13 on 2021-07-01
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by mgruhler on 2021-07-02:
yes exactly, one single command. You can also download the certificate using curl into a file and then read this. But that isn't required, thus the above command.
Yeah, curl doesn't get installed with ubuntu 20.04 per default. I've stumbled upon that as well. So working now? If yes, please mark the question as solved.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2021-07-02:
If curl is not present by default, that (ie: the fact it needs to be separately installed first) would be something to add to the instructions.
Comment by mgruhler on 2021-07-02:
agreed and done.

