Q:

roscd: No such package/stack 'navigation' in version kinetic

Hi,
I am using ROS kinetic with desktop-full, but I can't find the navigation package with roscd command, but it's OK in version indigo, is it removed or moved to somewhere else in version kinetic?  Hope someone know this problem can help me out, thank you.

Originally posted by Phymin on ROS Answers with karma: 25 on 2017-09-25
Post score: 1

A:

You'll need to install the package first.  You should be able to run:
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-navigation
to install navigation.  Then you need to source the ROS workspace:
source /opt/ros/kinetic/setup.bash
Once you have both of those, you can then use roscd as you expect:
roscd navigation

Originally posted by clalancette with karma: 256 on 2017-09-25
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Phymin on 2017-09-26:
Thanks for your answer, I think you are right, I will try this tomorrow. But I am a little confused, that I installed the desktop full version, and from the tutorial, the navigation package is included in this version(that's why I ask this question), so   is the tutorial  wrong?
Comment by clalancette on 2017-09-26:
I just did a clean install of ros-kinetic-desktop-full, and it looks like ros-kinetic-navigation does not get installed.  So I think you'll have to install it yourself.
Which tutorial have you been following?  If it is wrong, it is probably a good idea to update it.
Comment by josephcoombe on 2017-09-26:
I'm going to assume @Phymin was following the kinetic installation tutorial on the ROS Wiki (http://wiki.ros.org/action/login/kinetic/Installation/Ubuntu):
"Desktop-Full Install: (Recommended) : ROS, rqt, rviz, robot-generic libraries, 2D/3D simulators, navigation and 2D/3D percepti..."
Comment by josephcoombe on 2017-09-26:
@clalancette is correct. Navigation is not included in ros-kinetic-desktop-full. Unsure if the wiki is incorrect or if it's referring to some other navigation-related packages. I made the same mistake as the OP a week ago, so I agree with that the tutorial should be reworded (though I can't edit).
Comment by Phymin on 2017-09-30:
@josephcoombe @clalancette the tutorial I followed was (http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation/Ubuntu)

