Q:

Protecting electronics against voltage/current extremes and bad polarity

I have built a robot from a wheelchair that has worked very well thus far. It is now time for me to take the next step. I need to implement a permanent power circuit with proper protection. 
The lowest level of protection I can think of is a fuse, but I would like to take a step further (current/voltage/direction/switches/High/Low voltages). If some one could give some insight on this project of mine any info will be greatly appreciated.

Moderator comment:  Please see How do we address questions about related subject areas? before answering.  This question is close to the boundary, but is on-topic here.

A:

I think this is a very relevant question for robotics, as you can spent a lot of time fixing your system if something went wrong in this area. Here are a few things to look out for:

Insulation: Ideally you don't want any high voltages to reach your equipment in the first place. So one of the most important rules we apply to our electronics is insulate. Try to have as little conductive surfaces flying around as possible. Especially when you system is moving, having something flying around that is conductive can screw you in the literal sense. insulation tape, tubing whatever are the weapons of choice here.
Connectors: Try never to use connectors that could be plugged the wrong way, or use the same connectors for different ports. Always check your connector thrice on the running system with a voltmeter before connecting it. 
Diodes can be useful to prevent overvoltage or reverse polarity, they are however useless if your power source is very powerfull, burns your diode, and gets through anyway. That is what a crowbar circuit will prevent. Its a combination of a fuse and a diode and will fix both overvoltage/overcurrent and reverse current. There are integrated parts available, and I've also successfully used polyfuses for small equipment.
Resistors in series for data lines are also quite useful as they limit the current flowing through. Something between 50-100 Ohm should usually do the job.
Fuses are generally a good idea, especially when you use power sources with very high current capabilities (e.g. LiPo). 

