Q:

station running roscore cannot listen to rostopics from other stations

We have an issue communicating with rostopics and are looking for a work-around (or at least explanation of the issue).
Suppose station A is running roscore and station B has mapped its ros master uri to station A.  Both station A and station B can see the full list of rostopics.  If station B publishes a topic, station A can subscribe to it, but it never receives any messages (for instance 'rostopic echo <topic_name>' never has output).  If station A subscribes to it, 'rostopic info' will show station A as a subscriber and station B as a publisher.
However, station A can publish messages to itself and can also receive service requests from station B.
Do you know why station A cannot receive messages from station B?  Does this seem like a network issue or is this an inherent/intended ROS feature?
In response to mwise_wg, setting the ROS_IP of station A to itself didn't change the behavior. Same with setting ROS_HOSTNAME on station A to it's own name. roswtf returns "ERROR Could not contact the following nodes: * /rostopic_3179_1..." and "ERROR The following nodes should be connected but aren't:

Originally posted by Nash on ROS Answers with karma: 207 on 2011-07-06
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Daniel Stonier on 2011-07-06:
Anything peculiar in each node's respective log for roscpp debug messages?

A:

try
roswtf

It sounds like you need to set the ROS_HOSTNAME/ROS_IP on station A.

Originally posted by mmwise with karma: 8372 on 2011-07-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by Nash on 2011-07-07:
Thanks, it worked when we set the ROS_IP to its respective station's IP adress
Comment by dornhege on 2011-07-06:
Both machines need to have set ROS_IP. Alternately both must be able to ping the others hostname (not only ip).
Comment by Nash on 2011-07-06:
Setting the ROS_IP of station A to itself didn't change the behavior.  Same with setting ROS_HOSTNAME on station A to it's own name.  roswtf returns "ERROR Could not contact the following nodes:

/rostopic_3179_1..." and "ERROR The following nodes should be connected but aren't:"

