Q:

Mechanical design for motorized spherical caster wheels

Design goal is to have a mobile robot that operates on 3 large casters, essentially 2 to 4 inch diameter steel ball bearings, that are motorized. No other mechanism would touch the surface. The robot should thus be able to move in any XY direction on a flat surface, with steering being achieved by varying the speed and rolling direction of these wheels. The robot has no designated "front" side, so it does not need to (and should not have to) bodily turn, in order to move off in any given direction. 
Conventional wheels or tracks are not the preferred approach. 
Looking for suggested mechanical layouts of multiple rubber wheels, pressing down onto the steel ball from within the castor housing, to drive the ball in any direction. A single wheel on a stepper, rotated around the vertical axis using a sail-winch servo, is one approach under consideration. Would this be ideal, or are there any serious flaws in this approach?
Alternatively, is there any other suggested method of driving such a steel ball in any arbitrary direction under electronic control?

A:

How about Omnidirectional wheels?

You could drive the sphere on two pairs of such wheels, with each pair driven by one motor. This would give you two axis control of the sphere. I.E. you can drive forwards or sideways.
Or you could use three wheels and three motors just like this robot:

This allows you to spin the sphere about the vertical axis, if that's helpful.
The good thing about this solution is that the wheels both drive the sphere, and bear the weight.

A:

What about two perpendicular rubber sheathed shafts? This would have the benefit of neatly separating out the x and y directions into two components.
This could be thought of as an inversion of the function of an old analogue mouse.
From the comments, it is clear that in order to rotate the steel balls in 100% x or y, the rollers on the opposing axis must be removed from contact with the balls.
There is also the assumption that the castor housing has bearings to keep the steel ball in position.

