Q:

Start to teleop My own Robot Model

Hi ,
I built my own robot model as a urdf file .. Like In this Tutorial
It looks In RVIZ :

Now, I want to start to test apps on my model like teleop to start to move it with Keyboard .
What Should I do ??
I think firstly Open a world to Gazebo
Secondly, Load my robot on the world .... I DON'T Know HOW ???????????
Third, Start to operate teleop node to start to move .... I WANT a CODE fit to my robot model ??
Actually I can't find a Stack that can operate apps on my robot
thanks

Originally posted by salma on ROS Answers with karma: 464 on 2014-03-31
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by raissi on 2016-06-07:
hello salma , i am now working on same you project , really i found the problems in the control for move it . i want your help if you have a time for give me some indications ! thank you . my gmail :    raissimohamedimam@gmail.com for contact me . i am in wait your help by all passion ! thank you
Comment by Zahraa23 on 2023-06-17:
Hello there,
I want to ask you if the teleop package of turtlebot worked with your project as I am facing the same problem now ?

A:

You will need gazebo to simluate your robot. This is not trivial and might need some work. However, I think the gazebo tutorials are actually quite good. There is a lot of documentation. I would start with the general gazebo tutorials and then once you understand how it works, check out the tutorials which are specific to gazebo+ROS http://gazebosim.org/wiki/Tutorials#ROS_Integration.

Originally posted by demmeln with karma: 4306 on 2014-04-04
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by salma on 2014-04-04:
Hi demmeln, I have finished my robot description files About environment world in gazebo, Not a problem I will use the default gazebo world file The issue now that i want to use the teleop app like that in the turtlebot SDK or whatever on my own robot But i didn't find any apps on a similar robot based on wild thumper base on ROS
Comment by Raul Gui on 2014-04-09:
Salma if your version of ROS is Hydro you need to install gazebo 1.9, this version is the compatilbe with hydro.
http://gazebosim.org/wiki/1.9/install
http://gazebosim.org/wiki/Tutorials/1.9/Installing_gazebo_ros_Packages
Comment by demmeln on 2014-04-09:
@salma: Did you go through all the gazebo tutorials?
Comment by Raul Gui on 2014-04-10:
In my case I did all gazebo tutorials of gazebo version 1.9.
The important ones are: 1.Building a Robot With SDF, explain how to build your robot and add a sensor to your robot too;  2.Making a World, you need to create a world to run in gazebo and do spwan of your robot; 3. ROS Integration, explain how to do a roslaunch to run your world and do spwan of your robot.
My advise is, if you don't understand what they are saying, install the package of turtlebot and see how it works. http://wiki.ros.org/Robots/TurtleBot
Ahhh another advise, use xacro to build your robot not sdf because, xacro you can find more support info.
In this moment I am working with turtlebot, and I can run him in gazebo without any problems.
Comment by salma on 2014-04-12:
Hi Raul, demmeln
I have finished my robot model description and a world on gazebo . I have tried turtlrbot teleop package and it works well now on Gazebo :).
Now i want to build a map by gmapping .
I have opened Rviz but some error occur in RobotModel plugins and laser scan plugins.
i am working to fix them.
thanks all for your help.
Comment by Raul Gui on 2014-04-14:
Hi Salma, do you have a error on Global Status Error too? if yes, may be you have Global Options  "Fixed frame: map" you need to put here a link of your robot, in turtlebot that is my case is "base_link". This will fix the Global Status and RbotoModel. The LaserScan is too the topic problem I think, in normal cases the topic that public data of laser is "/scan", search using this "rostopic list" or "rqt_graph", and find which topic is publishing, use too "rostopic echo /nametopic" to see the values.
I hope this helps.
Comment by salma on 2014-04-15:
Hi Raul, Yes this helps me thanks very much.

