Q:

How to orchestrate automatic multiple (non-)ros component based system start?

Problem/Scenario
I am trying implement a way to automatically bootstrap/start a complex system
that uses diverse ros and non-ros components. My web-search lead me to
roslaunch, which seems to be most suitable for this task (is it?).
However, I encountered several problems during the creation of a preliminary
launchfile and general system setup. My goal is to compare the capabilities
of ROS with those of a new framework created within the scope of my current
research.
My question:
Is there a best practice or recommended approach to realise such a
system startup when using mixed ros and non-ros components? Or does
this scenario not really fit well with the ROS framework and should be
implemented independently?
Exemplary encountered issues:

Some components require to access log files of other components
during run time (e.g. live plotting of non-ros components). I found
out that there is a run_id
in the log folder but there seems to be no way to find out what the current roslaunch run_id is (e.g. via env variables).

Organisation/Orchestration of components (some need to run
after others have finished or only under certain circumstances)
seems to be impossible with using just roslaunch. Further, using the
if tag also seems impossible as there is no way to assess if and
when a component is running. From what I gathered, heavy
shell/script hacks need to be done.
Please refer to:
wiki.ros.org/roslaunch
Proposed Features problem

"Dependencies: "launch prog X once Y is running""
"Allow binaries that are not in ros packages to be roslaunched"

wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML
Evaluation Order problem:

"Tags are evaluated serially and the last setting wins."

Thus, re-use seems to be unfeasible, because scripts and hacks will
lead into a "black hole" and never allow me to reuse any of the scripts
without manually adjusting component specific sleeps or waits.

Originally posted by qsalber on ROS Answers with karma: 21 on 2014-01-28
Post score: 2

A:

If you are using Ubuntu, upstart is one tool for handling problems like yours.
Many ROS robots use something like the ros_upstart package.

Originally posted by joq with karma: 25443 on 2014-01-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

