Q:

How to install robot_upstart?

This is a total newbie question but I have absolutely no idea how to install a package from the wiki.
http://wiki.ros.org/robot_upstart
I've tried downloading it from git and running install.py but when I run $rosrun robot_upstart <anything> I get the error package 'robot_upstart' not found.
I don't really understand how to use rosinstall or if this is even the right place to use it.
What should I be doing to install a package? Please assume I know nothing :)
Thank you!!

Originally posted by twigs on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2015-11-23
Post score: 0

A:

As you can see on the wiki page you linked, robot_upstart has been released into Hydro, Indigo and Jade (the released badge right under the Package Summary). Assuming you are using an Ubuntu flavour / variant, this means that you can install it using:
sudo apt-get install ros-$distro-robot-upstart

in a terminal (or look for the ros-$distro-robot-upstart package in synaptic or whatever package manager you are using). $distro will be one of hydro, indigo or jade, depending on what you have installed on your machine / robot.
No need to build from source or git clone. In fact, I'd avoid installing anything from source, unless you need to edit packages, it hasn't been released yet or a release with a (critical) bug fix hasn't been released.
Pre-built binaries will be much faster to install, dependency resolution will have already been done for you and you'll get automatic updates.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2015-11-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by twigs on 2015-11-23:
Hmmmm, this doesn't seem to find anything... I'll keep trying
sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-robot-upstart or ros-indigo-robot_upstart or ros-indigo-devel-robot-upstart or ros-indigo-devel-robot_upstart
all return unable to locate
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-11-23:
If you are on Indigo, sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-robot-upstart should definitely work.

