Q:

Alternatives to Mount the Motors on Quadcopter

We are doing a quadcopter project and we are at the stage of building the vehicle. However due to lack of attention, the screw holes of the Brushless Motors (Emax CF2822) we bought do not align with the holes which are placed on the Quadcopter Frame (F450). Only one of the holes align and it is not enough to stabilize them.
This is one of the arms of the quadcopter frame:

I pointed out to one of the screw holes.
Here below you can see the motor I use and one of the screw holes:

Below is what I experience with my setup:

As it is obvious from the picture, the screw holes of the motor do not align with the ones on the frame, therefore I can only mount one screw whereas I need to mount four of them.
Other than buying a new frame, I wanted to find alternative methods to mount these motors. I thought about using Silicone and then mounting the motors on top of the silicone. How can I solve this problem?

A:

As people suggested in comments, you have limited options.

Replace the motors to fit the frame
Replace the frame to fit the motors
Design an adaptor plate
Modify the existing frame

Replacing the frame or motors
The first two options just require shopping, so don't  need addressing here.
Pros

You get exactly what you need for your project
Cons
Cost

Design an adaptor plate
Designing an adaptor plate should not be difficult, if you have engineering drawings for the motor and frame..
Cons

Short run bespoke manufacturing can be expensive
Adds weight, of the plate, and of the extra bolts
Changes the position of the motor and thus the centre of gravity of the craft.

Modify the existing frame
This can be further subdivided into DIY and professional modifications.
Pros

If done correctly, would not change the position of the motor
Cons
It changes the design of the frame, it removes weight, but may alter the stiffness of the frame, and many more dynamic parameters, such as torsional strength, which would require Finite element analysis to fully assess
If these arems are not as solid as they appear, modification may not be an option, and this may not be apparent until making the first hole

DIY
If you are skilled with precision machining, and have equipment like a pillar drill or CNC machine, you could modify the arms yourself.
Cons

Mistakes at this stage may turn your frame into scrap, or even worse, could store up hidden problems for the future

Professional modification
This will require similar design work to designing an adaptor plate
Cons

Short run bespoke manufacturing can be expensive

If at first...
Finally, if one of these techniques doesn't work, you can always move on to another. For instance, if you have the budget to buy another frame if you botch a modification, then that is a less risky option. Do not underestimate the potential cost of taking the cheaper option though.

