Q:

Gazebo - How to manually input coordinates of objects

Hello,
Im using gazebo 2.2 (ubuntu 14 trustly with ROS indigo). I created my world with a TurtleBot robot inside for simulation purposes.
Now what I'm looking for is a way to manually input initial coordinates of objects. I want to select an object, for example said Turtlebot (mobile_base) and then place it exactly at X = 1.5, Y = 1.5, Z = 0 and then give it rotation yaw = -1
How do i do it?
When i select world object mobile_base it has "pose" property that can be edited but i cant see a way to save these new values, each time i click outisde of the world tab, they reset to previous values.

Originally posted by Multiplexer on Gazebo Answers with karma: 5 on 2017-11-30
Post score: 0

A:

It sounds like you're just starting, so I'd recommend you step back a bit and reinstall everything to run ROS Kinetic with Gazebo 7, since Gazebo 2 hasn't been supported for a long time.
After that, I recommend you go through Gazebo + ROS tutorials before diving into the code: http://gazebosim.org/tutorials?cat=connect_ros
Update
Is this what you're trying to do? This is Gazebo 7.8.1:

Note that Gazebo 2 being outdated is only one of the possible reasons why it isn't working for you. You could have a joint pulling the robot back to the original place, or some ROS node publishing poses...

Originally posted by chapulina with karma: 7504 on 2017-11-30
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Multiplexer on 2017-12-01:
So entering object coordinates by hand while designing world is not supported in gazebo 2.2?
Is it a confirmed feature in Gazebo 7?
I dont want to change my whole configuration just to find out that its not possible either in Gazebo 7.
Thank you for reply.
Comment by chapulina on 2017-12-01:
I updated the answer to address this comment. I'm not saying it isn't possible on Gazebo 2, just that I wouldn't be surprised if it weren't working there.
Comment by Multiplexer on 2017-12-04:
thanks you thats what i was looking for, im installing Gazebo 7 with kinetic to see if it works

