Q:

Laser Scanner Rotation when the robot is moving

Hello there everyone,
I am running into an issue with the navigation stack with move base and AMCL in ROS.
The issue is, every time the robot rotates by a certain degree, the laser also rotates and stays rotated.
I do not know exactly what to do to fix it.
I have tried the following:

changing the wheel separation and wheel radius to correspond to the URDF model, as well as increased it to see the behaviour with other values. These values have been changed in the differential drive controller yaml file.
changed wheel separation multiplier in the differential drive controller yaml file.
changed odometry method from diff_drive_controller to P3D gazebo plugin.
changed the laser from a hokuyo model to an l3s, with different parameters (rays, update freq, angle etc).
rostopic echo on the odometry to check that I am getting values.
changing robot model size (with and without wheel separation changes).

One interesting thing to note is that if the robot moves forward or backwards, there are no issues. Which makes me think the issue is the odometry, but I have changed so many things I don't even know what to do.
On another note, the robot does reach the navigation goal, however, there will be open paths where because of the weird laser scanner, it will  think there are walls/obstacles so it will not move to certain places.
If I launch a Turtlebot3, everything works well there, so it's not an issue with the map or the ros noetic installation.
Any help would be appreciated.
Here is a video of the problem: YouTube Video

Originally posted by Ciprian on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2022-01-16
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Davies Ogunsina on 2023-02-19:
I also have this problem , how did you solve it ?

A:

I fixed it after 40 hours of wasted time in trying to get the diff_drive to work, by switching to a skid_drive gazebo plugin, this was giving me good odometry values, but was extremely slow.
Then after even more hours, I used an omni_steering, with a planar_move.so controller, an it was working, but it was sliding on the map rather than moving correctly, because my base wasn't omni-wheel. I added 2 more wheels and made it 8 total, 4 on each side, and now it works perfectly fine. Extremely weird problem and fix.

Originally posted by Ciprian with karma: 11 on 2022-01-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

