Q:

How to Use robot_localization

I am working in a project, where I have to use Robot Position.
IMU unit is attached with that, Now I found Robot_Localization package, which I can use in my project.
I dont have any GPS device with robot and I dont know  How to use this and  what are the setup requirements before using this package.
Can I use Mobile as GPS device over Robot? If yes then How to Integrate with ROS?

Originally posted by KDROS on ROS Answers with karma: 67 on 2014-12-30
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Tom Moore on 2014-12-30:
This sounds like two questions. One is about using a mobile device as a GPS, and the other is about using robot_localization. I would suggest making them two separate questions.
Also, can you give us more details? Does your robot have odometry?
Comment by KDROS on 2014-12-30:
Yes It sounds like 2 ques but I found GPS integration in Robot_localization package, That is why I asked, What will happen If I wont use GPS?

A:

Your IMU is going to give you, at most, orientation, angular velocity, and linear acceleration. An IMU alone is not going to be sufficient for navigation. If you do have wheel encoders that are producing velocity or position and an IMU, then you're in good shape. Read through the robot_localization wiki page and tutorials for information on how to set it up. You can also look at the sample launch files in the source code repo. You shouldn't have to make any code changes, no.

Originally posted by Tom Moore with karma: 13689 on 2014-12-30
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 5

Original comments
Comment by KDROS on 2014-12-31:
I am trying this, I will ask help again. But one more question is this package specific for any robot or can be used in any robot. I am using FIREBIRD VI Robot
Comment by Tom Moore on 2014-12-31:
It's meant to be used for any robot. I'm not familiar with the Firebird, but if the data all conforms to ROS standards, robot_localization ought to work with it.
Comment by KDROS on 2015-01-14:
can you plz tell me how to execute these. I am creating node that will publish /odom topic,
is ekf_template.launch is enough for getting pose info?  how to write publisher node for Imu?
Comment by el loco on 2019-08-27:
If, per se, I was interested in speed (not even necessarily velocity) but not position, would an IMU be enough hardware to use with this package? I'm trying to find how to use this package and can't find any clear examples. Thanks in advance
Comment by Tom Moore on 2019-08-31:
An IMU only provides rotational velocity. It doesn't provide linear velocity or speed. The double integration of linear acceleration will make your state estimate unusable within a few seconds.

