Q:

A MATLAB guy wants to do a project in ROS

Background + Objective!:
I am a MATLAB/Computer Vision guy and I want to start to write a some piece of useful code in ROS. I have a basic understanding of ROS (topic, node, message ...). What I want to do is to write a 3D version of local occupancy grid map in 5-6 months (It will be as a part of my PhD thesis). Result of 2d version of local occupancy grid map that I have done in MATLAB is available in here: Link
Problems!:
The problem is ROS is a bit confusing for me. Maybe because of the lack of my skills in ROS and CPP. In my view MATLAB is a small body with huge amount of muscles (lots of codes, toolboxes and a great source of helps for writing small project) and ROS has a just big skeleton (very good structured for making big/real projects) and building every chunk of muscle for filling this skeleton will needs a lots of time and efforts... . Most of my questions are regarding programming skills in CPP and ROS. Some one please give me a big picture of what should I do:

Is it possible to directly write/implement a medium size cpp project in ROS or should I use an ide? e.g. Qt creator, Eclipse ...
how can I debug my codes in ROS?
how can I visualize 3D grids in ROS/CPP?

P.S. I will add more questions later.

Originally posted by AliAs on ROS Answers with karma: 63 on 2014-09-30
Post score: 0

A:

I guess you want to use ROS not ROS with Matlab
Have a look on these  packages which will be useful 3d_navigation , octomap_server and octomap_mapping
you dont need IDE to manage project but Qtcreator comes good for autofilling and debugging.
Visualize 3D grids in ROS/CPP
RVIZ can do that for you, it was quite easy .
Debugging ROS in Qtcreator
this QA is very helpful

Originally posted by bvbdort with karma: 3034 on 2014-09-30
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by AliAs on 2014-10-01:
Yes. I want to use ROS. Thank you for you useful information. I will have more questions to ask, ...

