Q:

Where can I find outlet templates for PR2 Plug package?

I have been trying to get the pr2_plugs package (allowing PR2 robots to plug themselves into power outlets autonomously) working and tested. I obtained the code from the Github repository listed on the pr2_plugs ROS page (http://wiki.ros.org/pr2_plugs). The launch files (and previous questions on this forum) reference pre-existing outlet template models, which seem to at some point have been provided in the pr2_plugs_actions folder. In particular, I am referring to outlet templates such as green_2x1white, which I assume models a power outlet. However, I have been unable to locate these outlet templates in the various branches of the pr2_plugs repository and anywhere. Would anyone be able to point me toward these files so that I can download them and use them to test the functionality of the pr2_plugs package?
Thanks!

Originally posted by jll on ROS Answers with karma: 27 on 2018-02-10
Post score: 0

A:

This is not an authoritative answer (as in: OSRF/ex-Willow Garage ppl should perhaps way in), but after some searching it would appear that the plug template files were never actually really "provided in the pr2_plugs_actions" folder, but downloaded (at build time) by CMake from pr.willowgarage.com (see here). This was removed in 79da1f37 for some reason (the commit message is unfortunately rather terse and doesn't tell us why: "bugs").
That host doesn't exist any more, but it would seem the files on that host (or at least the ones that you seem interested in) have been moved to download.ros.org, specifically to download.ros.org/data/outlet_detection.
I want to note though, that given the age of the packages and the fact that ROS has progressed (ie: changed) so much since then, I'm not confident things will work out-of-the-box, so even with those files, you'll probably run into problems.

Edit: archielee/pr2_plugs appears to be the most recent fork of pr2_plugs (at least on github). The last commit message says: "Fully compiles and runs in simulation" (but that was 2 years ago).

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-02-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-02-11:
PR2 maintenance was taken over by Clearpath when WillowGarage shut down. If you have a PR2 you might want to contact them (one of their employees ("TheDash") appears to have done most of the maintenance of pr2_plugs).

