Q:

ROS Answers SE migration: Pycryptodome

I'm following an instruction manual, which uses

rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --os=debian:stretch --rosdistro melodic

One of the commands it tries to execute is

apt-get install python-pycrptodome

This returns the error

E: Unable to locate package python-pycryptodome

Which, as far as I know, is because pycryptodome can only be installed using pip.
Is there a way to delete or skip this single command in the install chain, as I have already installed pycryptodome (3.9.7) manually?
I'm using a Debian 9.12 stretch VM.
Also the warning

ROS_PYTHON_VERSION is unset. Defaulting to 2

should be no problem, as python 2.7.13 is installed.

Originally posted by lukasjani on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2020-04-02
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-04-02:\

I'm following an instruction manual, [..]

please always be specific: which instructions are you following?

A:

According to packages.debian.org, python-pycryptodome is available starting in stretch-backports, and fully in buster. In Ubuntu it's available starting with bionic (here).
Debian 9.12 would be Stretch. So it should at least be available in the backports repository.
If you don't want to use that, you could append --skip-keys="python-pycryptodome" to the rosdep invocation.

Edit: I just checked, and it seems ros/rosdistro#22011 added pycryptodome to the rosdep DB. @Dirk Thomas comments there:

On Debian Stretch the package is only available when using stretch-backports: [..]

and:

We imported the package for Debian Stretch from the backports repo into the ROS repos: ros-infrastructure/reprepro-updater#69.

This seems to imply that if:

you have packages.ros.org configured as an apt repository on your system, and
you run one of the architectures for which the package has been imported

you should be able to resolve the python-pycryptodome dependency using apt.
Do you have the ROS repositories configured? What is the output of apt-cache policy python-pycryptodome?

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-04-02
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-04-02:
So what did you end up doing?

