Q:

Recommendations and Advice - Motor Driver for 12V Gear Motor with Magnetic Encoder

I am building a robotic insect leg that would be actuated by 2 DC motors for pan and tilt motions. Total weight of the leg is about 1.5kg and 1m long (moment arm ~0.5m). Magnetic encoder would be used to determine position.
This could be a very basic question but I have been searching for information regarding the wiring, control and suitable motor drivers to control the DC motors using Arduino to no avail. So any help would be greatly appreciated!
The two motors that I am using are Servocity's DC gearmotors that come with magnetic encoders:
1) https://www.servocity.com/23-rpm-hd-premium-planetary-gear-motor-w-encoder

Will be used for tilt motion 

2) https://www.servocity.com/84-rpm-hd-premium-planetary-gear-motor-w-encoder

Will be used for pan motion

The commonly used motor driver L298N supports peak currents up to 2A but both these motors have stall current of 20A. The torque/ speed curve is provided but no additional information about the torque/ current curve is available so not able to straightforwardly determine the max current required when running at lower torque requirements.

What would be a suitable motor drivers/ H-bridge that can be used with these two motors? Have already read up the few motor driver posts but doesn't seem to have that talks about max current of 20A.
Are there wiring diagrams available for these type of gearmotors? The most relevant topic found is this, but I have trouble completely understanding it: Need super-basic help with motor encoder 

Thanks!

A:

You would need something like the RoboClaw 2x30 motor controller. This should work.
20 amps is a lot of current, which would cause a simple chip like the L298N to get too hot and then fry. Please do not even try this.
For your second question, if you Google "motor encoder tutorial" you should be able to find a lot of information. You should read the RoboClaw user manual, because I think that it will take care of the encoders for you.
These are also called rotary encoders. The basics is that these are A/B encoders which means that there are two output signals, A and B. These signals are the same, but offset by some amount.
Imagine that A and B are square waves with B pushed forward. So you get states like this:  A,B = LOW; A = HIGH, B = LOW; A,B = HIGH; A = LOW, B=HIGH; then the table repeats itself. By using interrupts you can detect each time one of the signals change and then figure out the angle traveled. From there you can calculate the distance traveled by the robot, theoretically.
One of the many tutorials will explain this better than I can right now. It really is a lot simpler than I have described it, but that's how I think of it. 

