Q:

Openrave ikfast as an ik plugin for motion planning

Hi, all,
I want to make use of the strength of Openrave to get the analytic solutions for our 5dof manipulator. I know in orrosplanning package, ik_openrave.py provide a service /GetPositionIK. But I want a IK plugin to be loaded by ompl_ros_interface for motion planning. I just wonder how could I configure the Openrave IK module into a plugin? I heard that openrave could generate a C++ file as the inverse kinematics for the given manipulator, is it possible to use it to build a plugin. What would be the best way to do it and how to do it? Thanks.

Originally posted by Fei Liu on ROS Answers with karma: 47 on 2011-06-27
Post score: 1

A:

Hi Fei,
i just wanted to tell you that we (Martin and I) just pushed the latest version of our  katana_driver stack, which now supports constraint aware motion planning for our arm.
The set up is the following:

we fully specified the arms kinematics in a urdf file and coverted file into the collada format from which openrave then computed the analytical solution cpp files(see katana_description)
then we implemented a kinematics plugin (as Gil suggested above), which does not calls the generated cpp files directly, but via the orroplanning/IK service specifiying to use the TranslationDirection5D IK type (see katana_openrave_kinematics)
we then use the plugin with the arm_kinematics_constraint_aware node from the same package
to establish all necessary service (see katana_openrave_kinematics)

with this set up we are now able to use OMPL within our for our arm navigation. I hope looking through our files will help you setting up your arm. We also included some code for testing within the katana_openrave_test package.
Please feel free to e-mail me if you could need more detailed support or in cases you find some bugs or other ideas for improvement.
Greetings from Osnabrück,
Henning

Originally posted by Henning Deeken with karma: 66 on 2011-06-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by Fei Liu on 2012-02-01:
Wow, great! Anyway, I just see it. Thanks a lot for your hint.

