Q:

Fanuc Roboguide and ROS MoveIt

Dear all,
I want to make a simulation of fanuc robot in Roboguide.
This post is bit naive. I want to make sure that I do not miss any configuration steps.
I ask two simple questions here.
This post has two purposes.

Firstly, to confirm if I follow correctly.
Second question, at the end of this post.

I am using Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS bionic and  ros-melodic.
Basically, I have ROS/Moveit respositories for fanuc. I downloaded, installed and built these repositories from this link under my catkin_ws.
So far, I create a simple motion planning to a pose goal within rviz / MoveIt using move_group_interface.
My goal is to see the same motion on the Roboguide.
I am following  this link to install and configure Roboguide on a windows PC.
I have already installed Roboguide. The above link lists the following prerequisites.

a copy of the fanuc_driver package,
version 0.2 or newer [I have it on my
ubuntu system under my catkin_ws]
an installation of Fanuc Roboguide [I
have it on my windows PC]
a Windows
PC or VM (as Roboguide does  not run
on Linux)

Next, On the above link, under section 4.2 Importing, it says.
In the Cell Browser, import the KAREL and TPE sources into the workcell. Browse to your local fanuc_driver package. Since, Roboguide is on a windows PC, and  fanuc_driver is installed under catkin_ws in ubuntu system. It cannot be local. Do, I have to copy such files manually?
thanks,
Zahid

Originally posted by zahid990170 on ROS Answers with karma: 135 on 2020-07-02
Post score: 0

A:

Next, On the above link, under section 4.2 Importing, it says.
In the Cell Browser, import the KAREL and TPE sources into the workcell. Browse to your local fanuc_driver package. Since, Roboguide is on a windows PC, and  fanuc_driver is installed under catkin_ws in ubuntu system. It cannot be local.

"local" in this sentence means as compared to the remote .git repository which is hosted on Github.

Do, I have to copy such files manually?

That, or git clone the repository on your Windows PC too.
It's not too complex all actually: just make sure you have access to the files on the PC you need them. So copy the karel and tpe directories from fanuc_driver to your Windows PC. Keep the rest on your Linux machine.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2020-07-02
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-07-02:
Related comment: you may want to actually use fanuc_driver_exp.
Still not perfect, but a bit better than fanuc_driver.
Comment by zahid990170 on 2020-07-02:
thanks a lot @gvdhoorn. I will post any further questions, as I make progress.
Comment by zahid990170 on 2020-07-06:
@gvdhoorn, I have edited my original post to add some further information and ask another question? Is this the correct way, or should I put a new question. Thanks,
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-07-07:\

Is this the correct way, or should I put a new question

You should post a new question.
Please revert your edit to remove the new question.

