Q:

how to run a non-ROS software in ubuntu after i downloaded from github?

**I would like to run a software in Ubuntu called carDetect and this application i found it in GitHub. so I already downloaded this software from GitHub  to my desktop, and I want to run it in Ubuntu
How can i run this application after i downloaded to Ubuntu?
Thank you for your help**

Originally posted by DENSO on ROS Answers with karma: 37 on 2015-09-04
Post score: 1

A:

The software you refer to doesn't seem like a ROS package. So you can just follow the package's instruction to (build if necessary and) run it.
If you're asking how to run the software as a ROS package, I can think of some levels of tasks depending on what part of ROS you want to utilize:

a. You just want to build the software via ROS' build system (catkin). Then "catkin-ize" it (making software with catkin-compatible). There's actually no document AFAIK that specifically talks about this task, but you may start from catkin's tutorial. Typically this task requires adding package.xml and modifying CMakeLists.txt at minimum.

b. You want to utilize ROS commandline to access your package or executables in your package (example commands are below). To this you don't need extra tasks except for a.
  roscd your_pkg 
  rosrun your_pkg your_exec

c. If you want to run executables as ROS nodes, you need to change codes in addition to what was necessary in a and b. Again I don't think there are any documents that teach you how to turn non-ROS programs to ROS nodes, so I can only suggest you to go through some of existing tutorials (maybe this, this) to get ideas.

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2015-09-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by DENSO on 2015-09-06:
I truly appreciate your help
Would you please create the package in ros and send it to me ( assamali5@gmail.com)
I tried many times and I still go through problem to create it in ROS because I don't have strong experience
And I promise you I will never forget what you do for me
God bless You

