Q:

CAD model of the PR2?

Does anyone have a crude CAD model of the PR2? I'm designing a living lab and have done a few mockups in Solidworks. I would like to add the PR2 to get a feel for the size of the room.
UPDATE: I converted the pr2.urdf.xacro to a urdf file:
rosrun xacro xacro.py 'rospack find pr2_description'/robots/pr2.urdf.xacro > pr2.urdf

Next I converted it to dae file using the collada tool:
rosrun collada_urdf urdf_to_collada pr2.urdf pr2.dae

Using MeshLab I was able to save the dae file as a dxf file which I was able to open in SolidWorks.
However, it seems like the pieces were not moved to the correct locations and are all placed at the origin. Here is a screenshot: imgur.com/4UlQwVa.
Any idea on how to fix this?

Originally posted by sven-cremer on ROS Answers with karma: 33 on 2013-05-22
Post score: 1

A:

The PR2 meshes are likely defined with their origins at the various link origins.  When the URDF gets converted to a collada file, it's likely that the conversion tool does not account for kinematic positioning in the URDF, and instead just converts the individual mesh files.  This would result in a cluster of meshes all centered at the origin.
I don't have any suggestions for an "easy" conversion, but here's what I would do:

Extract each link/mesh as an individual part in Solidworks

either by splitting parts out from the conversion you're already using
- or converting the individual meshes referenced by @dornhege

Load up the PR2 in RViz, and position it in the pose you would like
Use tf_echo to get the transform from the base link to each individual link you have exported
Position the parts in Solidworks using the transforms from tf_echo

Like I said, this would likely be annoying and manual, but would probably work.

Originally posted by Jeremy Zoss with karma: 4976 on 2013-05-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by sven-cremer on 2013-05-23:
Thanks, I will give it a try.
Comment by bbferko on 2014-04-23:
Did anyone ever solve this issue? I would also need a full CAD model of the PR2.
Comment by ahendrix on 2014-04-23:
Sorry; the answer above is the current best solution; the CAD models of the PR2 have never been made public.

