Q:

Radxa Rock + ROS, how to install?

Hi All,
I'm new to microcontrollers and after taking a look around thought that the Radxa Rock looked like a good board to use for my Turtlebot2. From what I know so far, it dual boots Android and an Ubuntu variant I think is called Linaro. It's and ARM based board so do I just follow the ARM tutorial on the preinstalled Ubuntu or is there a better way (booting from MicroSD etc)?
I'm familiar with how to install and configure ROS on a regular Ubuntu install (Just installing indigo on Trusty on another PC) so just wondering if there's anything different that I need to be aware of.
Appreciate any help!

Originally posted by Praetorian on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2014-06-03
Post score: 0

A:

For the most part, you should be able to follow the Hydro UbuntuARM instructions.
If I remember properly, the Radxa has a fairly limited amount of internal flash storage, so to have enough space to install ROS I seem to remember having to repartition the internal flash and reimage the board. I know this required using Radxa's proprietary rkflashtool, but I can't seem to find the specific blog post I used as a reference. I remember hand-crafting a custom file that described the partition layout, and then pushing that to the board.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2014-06-03
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Tom Cubie on 2014-06-03:
The radxa rock has 8GB internal nand flash, 7G+ is for the linux rootfs. Download the server image here http://dl.radxa.com/rock/images/ubuntu/radxa_rock_ubuntu_server_140315_update.zip and flash it with rkflashtool.
Comment by Praetorian on 2014-06-03:
Appreciate the advice ahendrix and Tom. I'll download the above and give it a go following the ARM instructions.
Will reflashing lose the Android partition? Don't really care either way, just want to know.
Cheers :)
Comment by Tom Cubie on 2014-06-03:
I have created this page: http://wiki.ros.org/hydro/Installation/RADXA
You can implement it after you have done it on RR.
Comment by Praetorian on 2014-06-03:
Thanks Tom, above and beyond what I was expecting in terms of a response! I'll give it a go sometime this week and let you know how it went.

