Q:

Starting out advice on making robots and tinkering with microcontrollers

I'd like to start making robots and tinkering with microcontrollers. Where do I start, and what do I need?
I'd like to make my own robots. I'm comfortable with programming (assembly and C) so I've got that part covered, but my electronics/circuits knowledge is a little weak. I have no idea what material to start with and which tools I need, nor how to put stuff together.
For the microcontroller, I'm thinking about going with the Pololu Orangutan LV-168 or the Arduino Duemilanove, although I'm leaning more towards the Orangutan because of the built-in LCD and pushbuttons (which I would expect to use, especially for debugging and user interaction). Am I on the right track? It seems to me like the number of I/O ports is small, but is that the case in practice?

A:

I'd recommend getting your hands on a 3pi and an Arduino. They both use the same chip, and are a great place to start.
Get yourself some tools.

A soldering iron with a sharp point.
A multimeter.
Some breadboards and some wire.

Actually, just look here:
Ladyada's Equipment List

A:

If you have no idea what to do with your microcontroller, I would start slower. I wouldn't say using a Kinect is that great an idea right now.
Some of the other answers mentioned using development kits and boards to avoid soldering, which I think is a great way to get started with embedded programming without having to worry about soldering practically anything.
My tip is to look into a great website I found when I knew nothing about robots: Society of Robots and their great $50 Robot Tutorial! There you will find a lot of basic information for people who want to build their own robots.

A:

I'd suggest using kits to get you started.  There are excellent resources today that will quickly get you enough confidence and knowledge to built great robots.  I'd stick with as 'mainstream' technologies as you can in order to maximize what you can learn from others.  The most mainstream microcontroller you could choose is the Arduino Uno, perhaps its newer replacement the Arduino Leonardo.
Make's Getting Started with Arduino plus Maker Shield
This gets you the documentation, microcontroller, electronics, and your first few projects to get started with.  The documentation is excellent and takes you from very beginning to enough knowledge to do your own projects.
Add some electronics background by getting the Make Electronics book with the matching Components Pack 1 so you can do the projects in the book.  This will get you familiar enough to add blinky lights and simple sensors.
Then get your tooklit basics, such as the Ladyada's Electronics Toolkit.  Your first step up from this should be a better soldering iron such as the Weller WES51 once you've done enough projects to know why you need it :-)

