Q:

octomap Ubuntu dependencies

I'm doing a full source build of ROS Kinetic w/ MoveIt and one of the "system" dependencies is the ROS-packaged libfcl-0.5-dev, which depends on ros-kinetic-octomap, which depends on ros-kinetic-catkin / python-catkin-pkg. I'm not super familiar with ROS packaging, so I have two questions:

Why does ros-kinetic-octomap depend on ros-kinetic-catkin? Looking at the release repository, it seems that somewhere between upstream and the final .deb a package.xml gets added with a run_depend on catkin. Why would catkin be needed at runtime?

Why is octomap even a ROS package (ie, with package.xml)? (as opposed to some other 3rd party libraries that are simply packaged and distributed)

I'm asking partly because this is installing a second catkin alongside my built-from-source version, but also to learn.

Originally posted by mrjogo on ROS Answers with karma: 164 on 2017-01-06
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by 130s on 2017-01-07:
Interesting. I posted a comment on the devel repo hoping the authors would respond.

A:

Why does ros-kinetic-octomap depend on ros-kinetic-catkin? Looking at the release repository, it seems that somewhere between upstream and the final .deb a package.xml gets added with a run_depend on catkin. Why would catkin be needed at runtime?

Got a response from the author @AHornung; it's a way recommended in REP136 for 3rd party release.
UPDATE 20170124; And the reason why REP-0136 requires catkin for 3rd party pkg is this (handling setup.sh).

Why is octomap even a ROS package (ie, with package.xml)? (as opposed to some other 3rd party libraries that are simply packaged and distributed)

I had the same question, then if you search within the OctoMap code as of today, there's no ROS dependency there. So I assume it's just using ROS buildfarm as a release infrastructure so that the debian package name is ros-kinetic-octomap.

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2017-01-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

