Q:

A is not in your SSH known_hosts file

Hi,
I'm getting this error when trying to launch node on different computer.
A is not in your SSH known_hosts file

The problem is that the A is in SSH known_hosts. When I set ROSLAUNCH_SSH_UNKNOWN=1 everything works, but I do not want to connect to unknown machines.

Originally posted by liborw on ROS Answers with karma: 801 on 2012-08-15
Post score: 11

Original comments
Comment by fherrero on 2012-08-29:
Same problem here.
"ssh computer" works fine (doesn't need password because authorized dsa key added), so it's present in ~/.ssh/known_hosts (added on first connection)
But when running a launch with defined machines, it doesn't work (says it's not in known_hosts file!).
Did you find a solution?

A:

We had the same/similar problem and we have finally solved it.
Roslaunch uses paramiko to create ssh connections, and it seems that paramiko still does not support the ecdsa algorithm, used now as default by last ssh, so it can't read from the known_hosts file generated with ecdsa and can't create the remote connections.
To solve it, we have deleted the known_hosts file (or the line in particular) and regenerated it (storing the new host when asked) doing the first ssh connection with the following command:
ssh -oHostKeyAlgorithms='ssh-rsa' host

So now, roslaunch/paramiko-ssh understands the known_hosts file and can connect to the remote machine.

Originally posted by fherrero with karma: 738 on 2012-08-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 30

Original comments
Comment by Kai Bublitz on 2012-08-30:
Thanks for sharing. I had the same problem, too.
Unfortunately this fix breaks gnomes sftp support in the file manager. I can't connect to my robot from file manager anymore, the console tools give me an option to type "yes" to ignore the offending key, file manager just refuses connection.
Comment by adadada on 2017-11-03:
When I use the command line
ssh -oHostKeyAlgorithms='ssh-rsa' host
There is an error:
ssh: Could not resolve hostname host: No address associated with hostname
Do you have an ideas about it ? Thank you.
Comment by fherrero on 2017-11-06:
You need to replace host with the correct IPaddress or name (name associated to an IPaddress in your /etc/hosts file) of the computer you are connecting to.

