Q:

Strategy to keep track of third-party ROS packages

Hi,
In my ROS project, I am using ROS packages that can't be installed with apt and need to be cloned and compiled from source.
Because of that, I can't use rosdep to easily download all of the dependencies, which is making things more complicated when the project needs to be setup on a new computer.
What is the strategy people use to make this process easier?
Thank you

Originally posted by JeremieBourque on ROS Answers with karma: 95 on 2021-07-09
Post score: 2

A:

A common strategy if you want to stay within the ROS toolset is using repos files. Its a specification of ROS repos, URLs, branch (or tag or commit hash) that can be cloned automatically via vcstools and then compiled.
There are also plenty of configuration management tools like Ansible, Chef or Puppet for more generalized solutions to do more than just ROS management but installing operating system utilities, installing scripts in particular places, starting daemans, compiling workspaces, etc.

Originally posted by stevemacenski with karma: 8272 on 2021-07-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 5

Original comments
Comment by Jaron on 2021-07-10:
You can also use language specific package managers like pip or Conan and use their package tracking methods if they're published in them. Or if they're not, you can git submodules if they're in git. That's the most similar to vcstool.
Comment by christophebedard on 2021-07-12:
I think a link to vcstool would be helpful here: https://github.com/dirk-thomas/vcstool (I'm assume you didn't mean to refer to vcstools since that's another tool and it's deprecated)
Comment by JeremieBourque on 2021-07-12:
What are the advantages of using git submodules over vcstool?
Comment by Jaron on 2021-07-12:
Simply the fact that it doesn't require another package. For ros packages, I would definitely agree with using vcstool as it's the most common in this community and does more than git submodules. I have used git submodules with projects with and without ros depending on the amount it uses ros or the familiarity with ros I can except from the developers. I only brought it up because I think seeing the whole domain of what people use to answer question is sometimes helpful so you can see the value of each answer.

