Q:

Shape Memory Alloy wire for robot gripper arm actuation: How to vary grip pressure?

For a robotic gripper arm we are designing for factory floor use on very small components, we propose to use electrically activated Shape Memory Alloy (SMA) wire harnesses for actuation. 
The device being designed is akin to Pick & Place machines used for circuit assembly, but moves over an aircraft-hanger sized work surface on wheels. It manipulates irregular shaped and porous objects between 0.5 cu.cm and 8 cu.cm each - hence the traditional vacuum P&P mechanism does not appeal. Also, individual objects in the assembly line have varying hardness and weights.
Our design constraints are: 

Ensuring minimal to zero vibration and sound 
Using minimal volume within the mechanism (batteries are at the wheelbase, providing stability, so their weight is not a concern)
Fine variation of gripper pressure

We believe SMA meets the first two constraints well, but need some guidance on achieving constraint 3, i.e. different levels of pressure of the gripper controlled electronically.
My questions:

Can PWM of a current above the activation threshold (320 mA for 0.005 inch Flexinol HT) provide variable, repeatable actuation force? 
Would we need pressure sensors on each fingertip and a closed loop control for grip, or can the gripper be calibrated periodically and maintain repeatable force?
Is there any well-documented precedent or study we should be referring to?

A:

Have a look at the paper Technical Characteristics of Flexinol Actuator Wires.
What you'll want to do is devise a structure that leverages the available contraction of the nitinol wire to achieve the desired stroke and force for your application. The paper give a couple of example structures:

The percentage of contraction of nitinol is related to it's temperature. However, the relationship is non-linear and differs between the heating phase and the cooling phase. These differences will need to be taken into account.

In the article precision flexinol position control using arduino the author describes how to use the properties of nitinol so that the wire can act as it's own feedback sensor:

Flexinol, also known as Muscle Wire, is a strong, lightweight wire
  made from Nitinol that can be made to contract when conducting
  electricity. In this article I'll present an approach to precision
  control of this effect based on controlling the voltage in the
  Flexinol circuit. In addition, taking advantage of the fact that the
  resistance of Flexinol drops predictably as it contracts, the
  mechanism described here uses the wire itself as a sensor in a
  feedback control loop. Some advantages of eliminating the need for a
  separate sensor are reduced parts count and reduced mechanical
  complexity.

So by using PWM to vary the voltage across the wire and using an ADC to read that voltage drop, you can design closed loop control of the percentage of contraction of the nitinol wire. Then, using an appropriate mechanical structure, you can translate that contraction into the desired stroke and force needed for your application.

