Q:

Why do we use argument -i in rosdep install?

I am new to ROS2 and going through the tutorials here. I want to know why do we use the argument -i during rosdep install. I went through the man pages of rosdep and could not really understand why rosdep needs to ignore keys that are found to be catkin or ament packages. This is man page definition:
  -i, --ignore-packages-from-source, --ignore-src
                        Affects the 'check', 'install', and 'keys' verbs. If
                        specified then rosdep will ignore keys that are found
                        to be catkin or ament packages anywhere in the
                        ROS_PACKAGE_PATH, AMENT_PREFIX_PATH or in any of the
                        directories given by the --from-paths option.

What is the need to ignore the keys that are found to be catkin or ament packages anywhere in the path?

Originally posted by tsadarsh on ROS Answers with karma: 78 on 2022-08-04
Post score: 0

A:

What is the need to ignore the keys that are found to be catkin or ament packages anywhere in the path?

no, that's not what -i is for/does.
--ignore-packages-from-source tells rosdep to consider dependencies which it can find locally, in your workspace, as fulfilled.
In other words: if there are 4 dependencies, and 3 are already present in your workspace, rosdep will only install the single remaining dependency you don't have in your workspace.
Example: package.xml of pkg_c states dependency on pkg_a and pkg_b. Your workspace contains pkg_a. rosdep will only install pkg_b. pkg_a will be built as part of your workspace.
The usage text mentions "catkin or ament packages" as those are the only two types of packages rosdep would be able to detect in your workspace. You could have 20 other packages there (NPM, Conan, plain CMake, etc), but unless they are either Catkin or Ament packages, rosdep wouldn't know.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2022-08-04
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

