Q:

How to have multi turtlebot 3 in a real environment?

Hi, I'm new to ros and I'm having some problems and I hope someone can help me.
I want to use  2 "turtlebot3 burger"  at the same time in a real environment, in my nodes I have the control and at the end I have a topic "/cmd_vel" for each robot.
How can I make each robot subscribe to its respective "/cmd_vel", without conflicts?
I have read several topics about how to have several robots in a simulation environment like gaebo, and I have tried them and they work correctly, but I am not able to do the same with real robots.
Should I change something in the configuration of the robots?
Should I modify my launch file to have two ns groups and include a "turtlebot3_bringup" file?
Thanks in advance and any ideas or advice will be very helpful

Originally posted by carlosal24 on ROS Answers with karma: 16 on 2018-02-07
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by jayess on 2018-02-07:
Check out #q41433. Even though it's for a simulation (and old) it's still very useful.

A:

Hello, it seems that I found a simple solution and that until now it works perfectly.
It works in turtlebot 2 and turtlebot 3, the simplest solution is that before performing the "bringup", add in the robot terminal
export ROS_NAMESPACE=Robot1

and then perform the bring up for the respective model of your robot, for example for the burger
roslaunch turtlebot3_bringup turtlebot3_robot.launch

Doing this with each one of the robots you have, you avoid conflicts in the topics. Even if you do not want to do this every time you start the robots, you can add the name in the bash of your robot.
In the robot terminal
gedit ~/.bashrc

Add the name of the robot in the window
export ROS_NAMESPACE=NAME

You save it and finally in the terminal
source ~/.bashrc

I hope that if someone has this problem, this information will be helpful

Originally posted by carlosal24 with karma: 16 on 2018-02-19
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by jayess on 2018-02-19:
I think that this is ok if you're manually starting everything on your robot. If you want to use launch files remotely to start the nodes on your robot then I believe that the .bashrc is not used and you should use a separate env-loader.sh to load your environment variables.
Comment by jayess on 2018-02-19:
See http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/machine

