Q:

Joy node doesn't work well

Hi everybody!
I am trying to use an Xbox joystick with the joy node in a virtual machine. Although I've checked the correct joystick signals reception as shown in link text with sudo jstest /dev/input/js1; I've changed correctly the permissions; and I've set the ros param to the correct device (js1), but the node has problems to publish the data.
If I run the test as the tutorial tells, it takes some minutes before the first rostopic echo /joy received. Once I receive the echo, the values seems to be correct.
This problem increases when I launch that joy node with a several other nodes, in that case, I never get the echo response of the /joy topic.
I am running Ubuntu 12.04LTS with ROS fuerte on a virtual machine using VirtualBox, and It doesn't seems to have any processor, I/O, or RAM problems (I run it together with Gazebo, rviz, etc.).
Thank you!

Originally posted by Àngel - IRI on ROS Answers with karma: 74 on 2013-01-20
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by georgebrindeiro on 2013-01-20:
When you say it doesn't seem to have any processor, I/O or RAM problems, you mean nothing else is slow? If all that is happening is the /joy topic takes long to get published to, I would assume it is a problem of hardware virtualization and/or excessive swapping. Could you try it outside the VM?
Comment by Àngel - IRI on 2013-01-20:
Testing the joystick with a test like "jstest", running on the virtual machine, everything works fine. Using ROS, everything seems to work fine, even gazebo and graphic rendering programs. The problem starts using /joy node. (Other nodes or programs work fine running at the same time than /joy).

A:

Finally I got the solution without finding the failure...
I've reinstalled the whole system again and now it seems to work.

Originally posted by Àngel - IRI with karma: 74 on 2013-01-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by tlanglot on 2014-04-09:
In order to change the ros param, you have to go to the xbox360_teleop.launch and add

< param name="dev" value="/dev/input/js1"/ >

to the joy node.

Comment by Àngel - IRI on 2014-04-18:
The question was closed more than one year ago. Thanks.

