Q:

How to use kinect data to run RGBDSLAM over multiple machines?

Hello, I want to use turtlebot to run RGBDSLAM: use a laptop connected kinect camera to obtain depth data and color data, and then through a wireless way to send the depth data and color data  to the workstation side of the desktop, and then on the workstation side running RGBDSLAM. However, I encountered some problems.
1.on the workstation ssh -X turtlebot@IP_OF_TURTLEBOT

on the turtlebot: roslaunch openni_camera openni_node.launch
on the workstaion: rosrun rviz rviz

and i set the "FIxed frame : /openni_camera", and i can use rviz to see the depth data"/camera/depth/image_raw"  and color data "/camera/rgb/image_mono".
but the color data and the depth data seems not synchronized.when i got 2 depth data ,1 color data i got.

i want to use the color data and depth data in RGBDSLAM. and on the workstaion : rosrun rgbdslam rgbdslam     the GUI Appear. but  it always sits with blank screens in a 'waiting for image/motion' state.

in the web link text    i set the  "subscriber_queue_size"  to a high value. The situation is still the same.

PS: my turtlebot laptop 32bit ubuntu 11.10. Electric
workstaion  desktop 64bit ubuntu 11.10  Electric
Thanks in advance

Originally posted by longzhixi123 on ROS Answers with karma: 78 on 2013-07-17
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by yincanben on 2014-11-19:
Have you solved this problem?I want to run rgbdslam over multiple machines.Can you give some advices?

A:

Wireless is slow, many images are therefore dropped. This leads to badly synchronized images. RGBDSLAM uses the approximate time synchronizer to pair color and depth image (and camera info). I assume that the synchronization of the respective images is too bad to find pairs.
My suggestions:

Reduce bandwidth by using the monochrome image instead of rgb-color
Reduce bandwidth using qvga resolution.
Avoid the unsynchronized dropping of messages: Write and run a proxy node on the robot that combines color image, depth image and camera info in a custom message and sends that. Then on the other machine, write a proxy that splits the message and sends it again on three topics to rgbdslam. Then either all or nothing is dropped.

Originally posted by Felix Endres with karma: 6468 on 2013-07-21
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

