Q:

turtlebot_apps and turtlebot-rviz-launchers package is not being located. What could be the reasons?

I installed ROS (jade) and tried navigate and gazebo WORLD. Both were working fine. Then, somehow I had to reinstall ubuntu and reinstalled ROS. Since then, I am facing the problem given below. I installed ROS using link text .
baban@baban-H81M-DS2:~$ sudo apt-get install ros-jade-turtlebot-apps ros-jade-turtlebot-rviz-launchers

[sudo] password for baban: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package ros-jade-turtlebot-apps
E: Unable to locate package ros-jade-turtlebot-rviz-launchers

baban@baban-H81M-DS2:~$ sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-turtlebot-gazebo

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-indigo-turtlebot-gazebo : Depends: ros-indigo-gazebo-ros but it is not going to be installed
                               Depends: ros-indigo-kobuki-gazebo-plugins but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

Originally posted by Spartan_007 on ROS Answers with karma: 73 on 2015-06-29
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-06-29:
Please use the Preformatted Text button for console copy/pastes (the button with 101010 on it). Otherwise it's unreadable.
Comment by Spartan_007 on 2015-06-29:
is it fine now? I have kept the console part separately.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2015-06-29:
I already did it for you :). My comment was meant for future questions.

A:

Your underlying problem is that you're missing some dependencies.  You should make sure that you have turned on universe and multiverse as defined in step 1.1 of the installation: http://wiki.ros.org/jade/Installation/Ubuntu
The other possibility is that you have a conflicting package installed for one of the dependencies.
If you use -o Debug::pkgProblemResolver=yes as an option to apt-get it will give you more information.

Originally posted by tfoote with karma: 58457 on 2015-06-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Spartan_007 on 2015-06-30:
I checked the 'universe', restricted and 'multiverse', and all three are enabled. I am still unable to figure out the problem. Last time before I un-installed ROS the tutorial codes were working fine.
Comment by nckswt on 2015-07-08:
This answer doesn't make sense – I thought Gazebo2 (Indigo) and Gazebo5 (Jade) couldn't be installed simultaneously? Tutlebot isn't ported to Jade yet (see @gvdhoorn's answer below) so you can't run the simulation at all

