Q:

Independently change angular and linear velocities (cmd_vel)

Hi people!
This is really an easy question for the experts:
I am coding some roslisp/cram functions where I would like to change independently the angular and linear velocity of my robot in parallel threads. I first used the usual way of publishing the velocity in roslisp roslisp:advertise "/cmd_vel" "geometry_msgs/Twist" but then I realised that when publishing an angular velocity (roslisp:publish-msg (roslisp:advertise "/cmd_vel" "geometry_msgs/Twist") pub (z angular)) I would reset the linear speed to zero and the converse when publishing a linear speed.
Is there any [easy] way to modify the angular and linear velocity of the robot independently from one another in simultaneous processes?
The only solution I have is any time I want to modify only one component of the velocity is to read the current velocity and publish the values of the changed component together with the values that are not change. That is not ideal as with parallel threads changing simultaneously the same topic I might have problems.
Hey, thanks a lot.

Originally posted by LovedByJesus on ROS Answers with karma: 86 on 2014-06-03
Post score: 3

A:

At the end I chose to create a global queue where any velocity command (usually coming from different threads) is stored before being executed. The velocity commands are sequentially executed by dequeuing — the next velocity command is applied only when the previous is checked to be effective.
In this way, each velocity commands can independently change rotational or linear velocity by reading the current values of the unchanged velocity component and resending them with the new full velocity command (i.e. rotational+linear).
You may comment about how elegant or efficient this solution is. I am sure it can be bettered, but at the moment, with only two agents, works ok.
Sorry for delayed answer post. I was busy. And thanks @StefanKohlbrecher  for nice suggestions.

Originally posted by LovedByJesus with karma: 86 on 2015-11-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

