Q:

Preventing leaks in motor shafts for underwater bots

Whenever building an aquatic bot, we always have to take care to prevent leakages, for obvious reasons. Now, holes for wires can be made watertight easily--but what about motors? We can easily seal the casing in place (and fill in any holes in the casing), but the part where the axle meets the casing is still left unprotected. 

Water leaking into the motor is still quite bad. I doubt there's any way to seal up this area properly, since any solid seal will not let the axle move, and any liquid seal (or something like grease) will rub off eventually.
I was thinking of putting a second casing around the motor, maybe with a custom rubber orifice for the shaft. Something like (forgive the bad drawing, not used to GIMP):

This would probably stop leakage, but would reduce the torque/rpm significantly via friction.
So, how does one prevent water from leaking into a motor without significantly affecting the motor's performance?
(To clarify, I don't want to buy a special underwater motor, I'd prefer a way to make my own motors watertight)

A:

I'm not sure if an 'aquabot' is a fully submersible vehicle, or a surface one.
If it's a surface vehicle, then you just need to look at RC boats. They've got this solved pretty well.

The seal that prevents water entering the boat is called a stuffing box (4 on the diagram). It's simply a tube stuffed with grease. The grease prevents any water leaking into the boat between the tube and the propeller shaft. Usually there's about a 1mm or so gap between the shaft and the inside of the tube, so that it can hold plenty of grease. The ends of the tube have loose bushings fitted which hardly contribute any friction, but prevent the grease escaping.
This will probably work well even for fully submersible vehicles, as long as they don't go too deep. As you go deeper, the pressure will begin to force water up the tube, pushing the grease out, and eventually letting water into the boat.
One way to combat this is to simply push back. Increase the air pressure at the other end of the stuffing box so that things stay balanced. One way to do this is to enclose the motor and the inside end of the tube inside a small sealed box. Use a tiny pump to pressurize the box to match the water pressure.
Alternatively, why not let the water do the work for you? Seal the motor inside a rubber bladder and house it outside the boat. The water pressure will compress the bladder so that the air pressure inside always matches the pressure outside perfectly.

My final suggestion is similar to Mark Booth's. Why not build a motor which can cross the hull of the vehicle. Put the magnets of the motor outside, and keep the windings inside where it's dry. What you will be making here is basically a Brushless Motor:

You could maybe build this into something like a ducted fan.

A:

You may want to consider a Magnetically Coupled Drive. Use a standard motor with a magnetic coupling to transmit the torque to your prop.
This would allow your motor to be completely sealed inside your vehicle:

From Eric Stackpole's article mentioned above. Image used without permission, but with attribution.
This solution may or may not be suitable however, depending on the torque you need to transmit, but for open water use has the distinct advantage that it is torque limited. In other words, if your prop gets jammed and you have selected suitable motor and coupling torques then the coupling will slip before your motor burns out.
I particularly like Erics solution as it simultaneously transmits torque to the prop, centers the prop on the shaft and centers the prop along the shaft. An elegant piece of design which solves several problems simultaneously.

A:

If you're looking for a very cheap way to do it (as in, educational budget cheap), check out the Sea Perch ROV build manual.
Full disclosure, I used to work at the MIT lab that heads up this educational program.
On page 9 of that PDF it starts talking about how to waterproof a hobby motor with a film canister and toilet bowl wax.  The entire housing remains submerged and we've taken it to 20 or 30 foot depths in some cases.

The build is actually pretty straightforward; we help a lot of junior high and high school kids make these and I can't remember an incident where the seal turned out to be unreliable.

