Q:

When will we can edit ROS Wiki?

Hi Roboticists,
As you know, ROS Wiki is still immutable but It has a lot of missing information and some outdated informations. It says this on every page:

Note: Hi there, <UserName>! In an effort to combat spam, we require that
users be added to a whitelist to gain edit permissions. To gain edit permissions for yourself, please
comment on this GitHub ticket
with your wiki UserName, '<UserName>', to be added to the whitelist. Thanks for your patience and support.

I've already commented with my Wiki Username to there 88 days ago. When will we can edit pages?
Thanks!
EDIT: I've already changed my Username with non-spaced one before commenting on GitHub Ticket. Somehow my old Username was added to there. I've just reverted my user name with spaced one. And now I can Edit!

Originally posted by Orhan on ROS Answers with karma: 856 on 2016-04-29
Post score: 0

A:

Hey,
you can find the whitelist here.
It seems like @tfoote has already added your name. Maybe the additional whitespaces are causing the issue?
Cheers!

Originally posted by croesmann with karma: 2531 on 2016-04-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Orhan on 2016-04-29:
I've already changed my Username with non-spaced one before commenting on GitHub Ticket. Somehow my old Username was added to there. Thanks for an answer!
Comment by tfoote on 2016-04-29:
Your original comment was
Please add, I'm 'Orhan Gazi Hafif'. 
Thank You!

Which is what was emailed to me and I added to the wiki. At some point you edited the comment to change the username to have no spaces, but editing comments does not give notifications.
Comment by tfoote on 2016-04-29:
If you'd like to change it to the non-whitespace version (recommended) please just comment on the github ticket with your request.
Comment by Orhan on 2016-04-29:
Yes Sir that's what that was. Someone said "whitespaces aren't recommended" to me, and I changed my username and comment. I wasn't knowing anything about mail. I'm commenting, Thank you!

