Q:

How to remove ros-groovy-simulator-gazebo without removing all of ROS?

I'm completely new to gazebo and find it difficult to understand which version I should be using in combination with ROS groovy.
Here it sounds like I should stick to the ROS package ros-groovy-simulator-gazebo, but this link gives clear instructions on how to use standalone gazebo 1.9 with ROS groovy.
So for the moment I expect that I should be able to use version 1.9. Is this correct?
However, when trying to install gazebo_ros as described here, it says I should remove the old version of gazebo as per
sudo apt-get remove ros-groovy-simulator-gazebo

but apt-get tells me it's going to uninstall all of ROS if I continue:
The following packages will be REMOVED:
 ros-groovy-desktop-full ros-groovy-erratic-robot ros-groovy-pr2-simulator ros-groovy-simulator-gazebo

Can somebody plaese point me in the right direction which version of gazebo I should install and how exactly I should go about it?
I'm aware of the same question being asked here, but the accepted answer isn't actually an answer to the problem.

Originally posted by SimonHarst on Gazebo Answers with karma: 13 on 2014-02-25
Post score: 1

A:

Desktop-full includes simulator-gazebo, so removing simulator-gazebo does trigger the removal of all of those packages. If you first do something like:
sudo apt-get install ros-groovy-desktop
And then remove gazebo, you should be able to continue with the instructions.

Originally posted by SL Remy with karma: 319 on 2014-02-26
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by SimonHarst on 2014-02-27:
Thank you very much, that worked indeed. For the record, a lot of other packages were marked as obsolete, too, like e.g. ros-groovy-rqt-rviz and were therefore uninstalled. After removal of these packages and install of ros-groovy-desktop everything works fine, though. The rest of the gazebo 1.9 and gazebo-ros installation worked like a charm. Thanks again!

