Q:

What is different RGBD SLAM VS RTAB-Map SLAM?

Hi.
ROS beginners. So I'm not sure.
I tried to use rtabmap for slam using rgb-d in ROS slam.
But is rgbd_slam also provided in the ros package?
i can check the rgbslam at the following link.
http://wiki.ros.org/rgbdslam
Is this a package that can be used with gmapping, Cartographer, or RTAB-Map?
I would appreciate it if you let me know.
If RGBD slam is also available, I use rgb-d and 2d lidar sensors. Which is better, rgb-dlsam or RTAB-Mapslam?

Originally posted by mywjdp@naver.com on ROS Answers with karma: 37 on 2020-04-06
Post score: 3

A:

RGBDSLAM is a full SLAM approach like GMapping, Cartographer or RTAB-Map. There are many others compatible with ROS too. I will refer you to table 1 of this paper, which does a brief comparison of all available open-source SLAM approaches that can be used in ROS. Here is a copy of that table:

As you can see, depending on the sensors you are using, you would use either a vision-based (RGBD-SLAM) or lidar-based (GMapping, Cartographer) approaches. Currently, only RTAB-Map can use both sensors at the same time. In your case, you won't be able to use the lidar with RGBDSLAM, which uses only RGB-D camera as input. In the same way, you cannot use optimally a RGB-D sensor with GMapping and Cartographer approaches (it is possible to use the depth projection in those approaches but they are more tuned for long-range lidar with large field of view). RGBDSLAM doesn't create a 2D map by default, but a 3D OctoMap. RTAB-Map can use RGB-D camera for loop closure detection, and lidar for 2D mapping. See this configuration example:
image description http://wiki.ros.org/rtabmap_ros/Tutorials/SetupOnYourRobot?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=setupA.png
In some applications, you could use only a lidar, so GMapping and Cartographer can be other good options.
cheers,
Mathieu

Originally posted by matlabbe with karma: 6409 on 2020-04-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 6

Original comments
Comment by mywjdp@naver.com on 2020-04-06:
Dear Mathieu
That is the perfect answer.
It's best. ^^
Have a nice day.
Comment by Asan A. on 2021-05-31:
here is an additional paper for indoor slam overview
Comparison of Various SLAM Systems for Mobile Robot in an Indoor Environment

