Q:

gazebo ackermann car simulation

Hi,
I'm currently planning to set up a gazebo simulation for an ackermann steering vehicle (mainly with the intention to work on non-holonomic path-planning). Does anyone know if there are some urdf descriptions for such a car available somewhere?
Thanks

Originally posted by uschwes on ROS Answers with karma: 51 on 2011-06-15
Post score: 0

A:

I have created a URDF file for a Traxxas E-Maxx four-wheel-drive RC truck, along with Gazebo plug-ins to simulate shock absorbers, the steering servo, and the ESC. I'll put these items in a package and publish them.

Originally posted by Jim Rothrock with karma: 792 on 2011-06-15
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by uschwes on 2011-06-16:
Thanks for your answers! I digged in a bit deeper into the topic (still quite new to ROS) with the help of the ackermann example urdf file and would now have to start writing the controller plugin. But the model in the thread posted by Bemfica is VERY simple and I'm aiming for an a bit more sophisticated model. So let me know when and under which name you'll gonna publish your items, I'd really appreciate getting some more input on how to model all this (shock absorbers, maybe tire characteristics, etc.)
Thanks!
Comment by ThomasK on 2012-10-26:
Hey Jim,
Have you ever gotten around to publishing a package for your RC truck? I was trying to search for it but couldn't find it.
Thanks,
Thomas
Comment by Jim Rothrock on 2012-11-26:
Yes, see http://wiki.ros.org/ackermann_vehicle.
Comment by gleb on 2016-08-16:
Hey Jim
I'm working on a model of an ackermann steering vehicle and would like to look into your files to get an idea how to implement a controller for the ackermann steering. Unfortunately your package doesn't exist anymore. Would it be possible to upload your package again?
Thanks in advance
Gleb
Comment by H_Gottlieb on 2017-01-15:
Hey Jim. How would you use your package with a different model? (for example the polaris ranger ev that is in the gazebo database)

