Q:

About 2dnav using nav2djs with Turtlebot and compatible packages

Hello,
I am working in a project  integrates the web_video_server with map navigation capability, I have the following questions about the packages:
For the use of nav2djs:

The example that is in the webpage nav2djs tutorial is for the robot pr2, can I use the same launch files for the Turtlebot? If it is possible which would be the first step to take?

For the navigation using rviz:

I noticed that the web_video_server cannot run together with the amcl_demo.launch of this tutortial  because there are dependencies for the camara node, there is a way to use both of them but without the topic block restriction?
(I cannot use map_server like in the nav2djs tutorial, because the Turtlebot Autonomuos navigation gives conflicts with this too).

Thanks beforehand!
Update:
Like @rtoris288 said, the integration of the stack navigation and using the camera for streaming images is possible, the solution is running/launching the following nodes:
3dsensor
map_server
amcl
move_base
robot_pose_publisher
web_video_server
So, using 3dsensor instead the openni launch file (that I was launching before), bring all the topics and nodes that are needed to make both functionalities work.

Originally posted by pexison on ROS Answers with karma: 82 on 2015-03-18
Post score: 0

A:

nav2djs will work with any robot that utilizes the standard navigation stack which includes the turtlebot. You would need to change the name of the server to match that of the turtlebot and launch the turtlebot's navigation nodes (not sure which they are I don't use the turtlebot), robot_pose_publisher, and rosbridge_websocket as defined in the tutorial.

I see no reason web_video_server can't launch with amcl_demo. Multiple ROS nodes can utilize the same topics without any 'dependency' issues. That's one of the core beauties of ROS! :) If you try and launch the node twice (e.g., if amcl already launched map_server), then you don't need to launch it again since it is already running.

Originally posted by rtoris288 with karma: 1173 on 2015-03-19
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by pexison on 2015-03-19:
About number 2, if I am usingopenni.launch that launchs the camera node that uses web_video_server, I can't launch the 3dsensor.launch file because it remaps the names of the topics, when I try to launch the openni and then the 3dsensor  in that order, there is no web_video_streaming
Comment by pexison on 2015-03-26:
How can I remap the nodes using a launch file? I think that maybe the way to go is: Analysing which nodes differs between the application desired and the one already done, then launch the missing nodes and remap to integrate, what do you think?

