Q:

Why is behavior-based robotics not as popular as deep learning or reinforcement learning?

I am a master student in Germany and one of our professors is doing robotics research but with a different paradigm - the behavior-based robotics based on Subsumption Architecture developed by prof. Rodney Brooks from MIT in 1986. I was looking online for more info about this topic but could not find much, compared to the popular nowadays Deep learning techniques. Do you think behavior-based robotics is a fruitful research direction? Does it have any future? At this moment I am inclined to think that Deep Learning and Reinforcement Learning are the ways to add intelligence to robotic systems.

A:

I have not seen that many people working on behavior-based robotics. I am not sure even if Rodney Brooks still works on the subject.
Deep Learning: the approach is good for problems without a model. It is not to-go approach for many robotics problems. Because data collection, labeling, training, testing can be very costly. Even if you are interested in paying the price, sometimes there may not be enough data. If you want to land a rocket to a moving platform, probably you wouldn't want to use deep learning. :)  
Reinforcement Learning: the approach does not work in real-life applications. It is costly since you need to do a lot experiments. Most of the times it is not easy to interpret what your agent actually learned.  
=== purely subjective statements begin === 
My friendly advice: stay away from esoteric research subjects. I've seen some university professors who have a thing for obscure topics. These professors usually are the ones who passed the critical phase of their careers (pre-tenure) and like to experiment different topics at the expense of their students' career. It is highly likely that the outcome of the experiment will not make the professors more or less famous. They win some small grants and lure some young students to work on esoteric topics as if the subject were very important. You should ask yourself what you are going to achieve after you successfully study "xyz" topic. Is it going to help you find a job in industry or is it going to get you your own research agenda? Do not study a subject just because your professor has funding and he/she finds that topic interesting.
=== purely subjective statements end ===

