Q:

Powering my robot with 12V battery which is charged by a gas/petrol generator while the robot is operating?

A have designed a robot to perform tasks in farms.  But the problem now is I'm not sure on the best way to supply continuous power to my robot.  All the motors are rated at 12V and only Arduino and a few sensors work at 5V or less.  
Can I continuously charge a 12V lead acid battery with an adapter (comes with the battery) plugged into the AC output of the generator while the robot is operating? Do I have to worry about overcharging the battery?
Or should I use the generator's DC output which can supply 12V and up to 8.3Amp. Or is there any other suggestions?
Some information about the adapter which are stated on the package:
1. Built-in over-charge protection device.
2. Built-in thermal protection device
3. Output: 6v/12v 2Amp
This is the generator that I have: 
http://global.yamaha-motor.com/business/pp/generator/220v-60hz/0-1/et950/
This is my first robot which is quite big that requires a lot of electrical/electronic knowledge to power it. I do not have a lot of experience in this field. So any feedback is greatly appreciated.

A:

The alternator in a car is constantly charging the 12V battery while the car is running, which is to say battery-wise you shouldn't have any issues. 
Several things could be meant when you say the motors are "rated" for 12V. Is that a maximum, minimum, or nominal voltage? I'm assuming they're rated for DC power, but there are some low voltage AC motors. 
If I recall correctly, I think a vehicle 12V bus could swing from dead battery voltage of 11.8 to a charging voltage of 14.4V, so you should check that you aren't violating any ratings on the motors. 
For the electronics I would use a 5V DC-DC converter. You should consider a 12V-12V DC-DC converter for power conditioning if the generator output is too noisy. 
The only reason I would consider using a battery is if the generator can't supply the peak current you need or if you have to be able to run some functions without the generator on. Remember that the generator must supply more than the average power draw or you'll always wind up running the batteries dead.
Lastly, some generators may require a minimum load for proper voltage regulation, so be sure to check. 

