Q:

Howto release a package with system dependency ros-indigo-gazebo6-ros?

Hi,
I have a ROS package with the run dependency gazebo_ros (specified in package.xml).  When I release this package for Indigo the resulting debian package depends on ros-indigo-gazebo-ros.
Is it possible to make debian package depend on ros-indigo-gazebo6-ros?
Regards,
Sabrina

Originally posted by Sabrina on ROS Answers with karma: 285 on 2016-02-11
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2016-02-11:
There are rosdep keys for gazebo and gazebo5, but not for gazebo6 (here). At least those will probably have to be added.
Comment by Sabrina on 2016-02-11:
Thank you for this information. Can I add the rosdep keys for gazebo6 myself (e. g. with a patch) or is there any official support team I could ask for this feature?
Comment by Sabrina on 2016-03-03:
As a workaround I removed the run_depend gazebo_ros and gazebo_ros_plugins from package.xml. Users will have to install ros-indigo-gazebo6 and ros-indigo-gazebo6-plugins manually to be able to run the launch files.

A:

The policy for adding keys to the rosdep database is that the packages need to be available from the ros repository or from the standard upstream sources.
There are rules for gazebo and gazebo5 because they are available in the upstream. When packages land in upstream we can add them to the rosdep database.
Note that your dependency on gazebo_ros does not actually interact with the rosdep database. The gazebo_ros package is a ROS package in the rosdistro, which is why it ends up with ros-indigo- in the prefix.
The gazebo team maintains newer versions of gazebo built into debians such as gazebo 5 and 6. Some details are at: http://gazebosim.org/tutorials?tut=ros_wrapper_versions
You can also locally modify your rosdep sources to add new rules for gazebo as mentioned on this question by @jose-luis-rivero : http://answers.gazebosim.org/question/8598/how-to-install-ros-indigo-gazebo-ros-control-with-gazebo-5/ however they cannot be added to the default since they rely on the packages.osrfoundation.org repository.

Originally posted by tfoote with karma: 58457 on 2016-02-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Dirk Thomas on 2016-02-11:
The upcoming ROS version Kinetic for Ubuntu Xenial will have Gazebo 7 and will allow you to release against it as a dependency if that helps.

