Q:

Removing runtime dependency on Python

Is it possible to remove runtime dependency of ROS on Python. Catkin, the build system, may need python for code generation from messages; but how difficult it is to use only C++ libs when ROS runs on any target ? Has anybody in the community given a try ?
Thanks in advance !

Originally posted by ameybits on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2017-12-20
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-12-20:
Could you be a bit more specific about what you mean with "when ROS runs on any target"? Are we just talking a nr of off-board developed nodes which participate in a node graph that is managed also off-board, or a full ROS dev environment?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-12-20:
And to avoid an xy-problem: what is it you're trying to achieve? There may be easier ways.
Comment by ameybits on 2017-12-20:
Hello gvdhoorn
My question was in context of running ROS on an embedded system, which may not have python on. It may be running a custom linux distro built by yocto; just as an example.  In this case, is it possible to remove python based packages from ROS and run it with only c++ packages.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-12-20:
In general: removing Python from everything will be difficult, as Python is used extensively throughout ROS (the master is pure Python fi). Deploying a subset that doesn't use Python is probably doable, but things like rosrun and roslaunch will not work. Depending on how much convenience ..
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-12-20:
.. you'd like to maintain, this shouldn't be too much of a blocker though.
As to use of ROS on embedded systems with off-board built rootfs, you might want to take a look at bmwcarit/meta-ros: a "ROS Layer for OpenEmbedded Linux".
Comment by ameybits on 2017-12-20:
Yes. The original catkin system can also be leveraged for off-board cross compilation by overriding default compiler and sysroot paths in cmake.
Any idea whether python free flavor of ROS is on the contributor's agenda ?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-12-20:
I'm not privy to what everyone else is planning to do / doing, but I'm not aware of any work towards something that does not use Python. On the contrary even.

A:

Depending on what all you need to do on the embedded system, you might be able to benefit from rosserial. There is even a version specially for embedded linux and great tutorials.

Originally posted by Airuno2L with karma: 3460 on 2017-12-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

