Q:

How to create a package for new gazebo plugins?

Hi,
I have created plugins for IR Sensor and Sonar Sensor. I want to create a package for both so that it can be tested on other computer and then submitted to ROS. Further i would like to mention here that i have created Sonar Sensor (IRSensor and its controller are already present in gazebo) by the name of SonarSensor and its controller named "sonar_array" as well. I have also done some changes to files called MultiRayShape and gz.h( i have added sonarIface in the gz.h). Similarly xacro files are also created for IRSensor and Sonar Sensor.
I would like to know how to create package for sonar sensor, IRSensor plugin and SonarSensor plugin. Any Help in this regard will be appreciated.
Regards,
Saeed Anwar

Originally posted by SAK on ROS Answers with karma: 94 on 2011-09-04
Post score: 1

A:

Do you mean you want to create a stack to regroup your different packages?
You can use roscreate-stack and roscreate-pkg to create a stack or a package ( see this wiki page )

Originally posted by Ugo with karma: 1620 on 2011-09-04
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by SAK on 2011-09-05:
these are only source files like the one present in /opt/ros/diamondback/stacks/simulator_gazebo/gazebo_plugins (gazebo_ros_ir.cpp) and the xacro files present /opt/ros/diamondback/stacks/pr2_common/pr2_description/urdf/sensors (xx.gazebo.xacro and xx.urdf.xacro)
Comment by Ugo on 2011-09-04:
Are those binaries or sources?
Comment by SAK on 2011-09-04:
I have two kind of files. some files are newly created (GazeboRosIr, and GazeboRosSonar, Sonarsensor, sonar_array) and some are modified files (MultiRayShape, gz). now how can i deal with all these
Comment by Ugo on 2011-09-04:
If you depend on roscpp for example, you'll have a src and an include directory where you can put your sources. If your work contains files that should be copied to the gazebo package, may be you should propose a patch for this package?
Comment by SAK on 2011-09-04:
Thank for your Reply. For time being i am only creating packages, not regrouping. I have seen this tutorial, but i does specify how to put files in the package. further how i will specify the path for the files to be put in the gazebo during package creation?

