Q:

Physical setup for collecting tod_training data?

I wonder how to collect tod_training data? From a previous question I know that we should be able use
roslaunch tod_training record_openni.launch bag:=pwd/awesome.bag interval:=0.5

Unfortunately, the tutorial about recording a training bag is empty. I wonder how to setup our environment. We need fiducial markers rigidly attached to a rotating table and in between these markers, we place an object, correct? Is it enough to create a setup as shown on the picture?

(image showing part of the sample training bags found in the base-creation tutorial)

Must the print size of the fiducial markers have a certain size?
Are there any crucial aspects I have to be aware of in my preparation?

As collection of training data can be time-consuming and needs hardware, I want to make sure we're on the right track before starting the attempt.

Originally posted by Julius on ROS Answers with karma: 960 on 2011-03-23
Post score: 1

A:

We need fiducial markers rigidly attached to a rotating table and in between these markers, we place an object, correct?

Yes.

Is it enough to create a setup as shown on the picture?

Yes.

Must the print size of the fiducial markers have a certain size?

No. You can use different markers (different cells count, size, etc). But you should change fiducial configuration file (fiducial.yaml) for your markers.

Are there any crucial aspects I have to be aware of in my preparation?

I think no. You should only write bag file with object rotation.

Originally posted by Alexander Shishkov with karma: 191 on 2011-03-23
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by dejanpan on 2011-04-04:
Alexander, our understanding is that ./bin/fiducial program in pkg fiducial generates that fiducial.yaml file. However, the question is how do we get in the description of 2 checkerboards as done in the following file: http://vault.willowgarage.com/wgdata1/vol1/tod_kinect_bags/training/fiducial.yml?

