Q:

[solved] Couldn't open Joystick /dev/input/js0

I am trying to "teleop" my turtlebot using a Logitech Attack 3 joystick. I bring up the turtlebot from a remote PC, followed by the command:
roslaunch turtlebot_teleop myjoystick.launch

where myjoystick.launch is the modified logitech.launch file with the added axis_deadman param. The terminal on my remote PC shows error "Couldn't open Joystick /dev/input/js0. Will retry every second." No response when joystick is connected to the remote PC. The turtlebot responds properly when I connect the joystick to the turtlebot netbook.
I tried changing permissions of /dev/input/js0 to 777 as well, with no help.
Also, keyboard teleop happens without any errors.
Why is the remote joystick teleop not happening and how do I fix this?

Originally posted by Loneflyer on ROS Answers with karma: 96 on 2015-09-30
Post score: 2

A:

Hey , there is a document  about this problem , you can have a look.here
Maybe you haven't download jstest

Originally posted by wsAndy with karma: 224 on 2015-09-30
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Loneflyer on 2015-09-30:
The joystick works fine when connected to the turtlebot netbook. It won't work in teleop from my remote PC.
I have tried all the troubleshooting steps from that documentation page, with no help.
Comment by wsAndy on 2015-10-01:
Well, the maybe you should check your net.
Maybe you can try this way. First, link the joystick with your remote PC, in which if you can get the output , right? Then, you connect to turtlebot, and in its terminal you can get the output message or not.
Comment by wsAndy on 2015-10-01:
If you cannot get the message, you need to set the ROS_IP in your .bashrc in both computer
Comment by Loneflyer on 2015-10-01:
The problem is solved actually. The problem was that I had not set ROS_IP on my remote machine, so a lot of applications that come later in the tutorials after teleop wouldn't open on my PC (like gmapping and rviz).
Thanks for all your help. I'm still a newbie and have a long way to go with ROS!

