Q:

eclipse calling make, not rosmake

By following wiki, my eclipse works almost perfect with ROS, after running "make eclipse-project". Only thing is I had to add the following modification in order to run rosmake from eclipse' build feature (w/o adding make target or else). Am I missing something?
On eclipse project's Properties, C/C++ Make Project --> Make Builder tab

Change Build command from /usr/bin/make to /opt/ros/fuerte/bin/rosmake
Delete Build (Increment Build) value that is initially set all

I still want to avoid the workaround above because I have to "make clean" often for a certain reason (uploading to versioning server is primary one), which resets this config. My colleague is experiencing the same phenomenon (and the workaround above actually came out from him, which is ok but still makes things tedious in a middle/long run).
Environment: Ubuntu 10.04, Eclipse Indigo SP2

Originally posted by 130s on ROS Answers with karma: 10937 on 2012-07-25
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Felix Kaser on 2012-07-25:
What exactly is your question? I'm not sure I understood your problem, it seems to work fine?
Comment by 130s on 2012-07-25:
@Felix Kaser I updated my question. I'm wondering if there's a solution that doesn't require any additional action after "make eclipse-project".
Comment by Felix Kaser on 2012-07-25:
Ah ok that makes much more sense now. Thanks!
I guess you could adapt the make eclipse-project to include the project specific build instructions, but that's just a wild guess.

A:

I think your solution you already have is actually good.  The better solution (to me) is not to use any IDE's build tools.  The linux gcc/gdb etc environment has been made to work with the command line and iterated on for many years and is a very robust solution.  I do like IDEs for a development environment (code completion and some other things), but that’s about all I use it for.  For compiling I switch to a terminal and run all my build commands whether its ROS or not.
IDEs have just built an extra layer on top of the gcc/cmake/etc tools, which means if there's a problem, it could be in that extra layer which you don't need anyways.

Originally posted by PerkinsJames with karma: 506 on 2012-07-26
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by 130s on 2012-07-31:
After having 2 answers by now I assume there's no direct solution to my question. So I chose yours as the best ans since you refer to my workaround, while I still prefer to building/debugging from IDE b/c I can refer to code esp. during debug.

