Q:

VSLAM based navigation with Kinect, where do I begin?

I'm interested in developing a robot (UAV) indoor navigation system basing on a MS Kinect (or Kinect-like, like the PrimeSense dev kit) sensor. I'm specifically interested in corridor following.
I've recently bought a BeagleBoard-xM platform and installed Ubuntu and ROS on it. I'd like to start off without any flying platform and implement the navigation layer first. So here is my plan (and questions):

I have to buy a sensor for VSLAM (ie. Kinect or so): do you have any suggestions on which one should I choose? I unfortunately wasn't able to connect PrimeSense recently, is it even worth it, or should I stick with the original Kinect?
Which stacks should I start playing with? I'm particularly interested in indoor navigation and attitude estimation (I could fuse with IMU based attitude data afterwards).
I would then try to implement a distributed system (Desktop PC + BB-xM) via ROS, with both peers doing a part of calculations. How would you design such a system, what potential risks do you see right away?

Any suggestions welcome, tom.

Originally posted by tom on ROS Answers with karma: 1079 on 2011-02-16
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by mmwise on 2011-02-17:
when you see an answer you like, mark it as an accepted answer

A:

I have to buy a sensor for VSLAM (ie. Kinect or so): do you have any suggestions on which one should I choose? I unfortunately wasn't able to connect PrimeSense recently, is it even worth it, or should I stick with the original Kinect?
I was also unable to get a Primesense SDK from them directly, however you might want to continue trying as the Primesense device is quite a bit smaller, lighter, and less power hungry than a Kinect (which certainly has to be a good thing for a UAV).

Originally posted by fergs with karma: 13902 on 2011-02-16
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by fergs on 2011-02-18:
I only got one by winning one in the ROS 3D Contest
Comment by tom on 2011-02-17:
Thanks fergs, and is there a way to get a Primesense SDK indirectly anyhow?

