Q:

No gazebo-ros package after update?

After the recent 2.0.0 Gazebo update, I can no longer run gazebo_ros. It has been deinstalled during the update. When trying to install gazebo-ros-pkgs, I get the following output:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-hydro-gazebo-ros-control : Depends: ros-hydro-gazebo-ros but it is not going to be installed
 ros-hydro-gazebo-ros-pkgs : Depends: ros-hydro-gazebo-plugins but it is not going to be installed
                             Depends: ros-hydro-gazebo-ros but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

When trying to install the mentioned ros-hydro-gazebo-ros, this is the output:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-hydro-gazebo-ros : Depends: gazebo but it is not going to be installed
                        Depends: ros-hydro-gazebo-plugins but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

Yet, gazebo is installed and can be run.
Is there something broken in the repository?

Originally posted by RafBerkvens on Gazebo Answers with karma: 33 on 2013-10-10
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Vahid on 2013-10-22:
i have this problem also!
Comment by Jose Luis Rivero on 2013-10-22:
The repository was somewhat broken during some hours, it should be fixed now. Try to uninstall gazebo package and read the instructions to use Gazebo with ROS

A:

This issue is tracking the problem. The problem should be resolved very soon.

Originally posted by nkoenig with karma: 7676 on 2013-10-10
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Jose Luis Rivero on 2013-10-10:
As Nate said, it should happen very soon, but some more information and workaround are covered in this answer.
Comment by RafBerkvens on 2013-10-11:
Thanks for both the reply and the comment. I'm now waiting for the actual update to happen.
Comment by Jose Luis Rivero on 2013-10-22:
For problems related to Gazebo and ROS, be sure to read the Gazebo/ROS integration document

