Q:

Pointgrey camera driver parameter limits cfg file

I am trying to set the frame rate on my Point Grey Chameleon 3. The dynamic reconfigure has a max value of 100. This is set in the PointGrey.cfg file.  However, the camera itself is capable of higher frame rates.
I have installed the camera driver from apt:
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-pointgrey-camera-driver

Is there a way for me to modify the PointGrey.cfg file somewhere? I assume with my install method that it is all packaged up in a binary file and not changeable. Is there a way to override the default PointGrey.cfg file with a custom one? Can I point the Nodelet at a new .cfg file? Maybe in the launch file?
I have a custom launch file already where I set various parameters for the Nodelet. I generated this launch file by copying the camera.launch file from the github page and adding parameters (https://github.com/ros-drivers/pointgrey_camera_driver/blob/master/pointgrey_camera_driver/launch/camera.launch). Is there a line I could add in here to tell the Nodelet to use a custom .cfg file?
I have tried installing from source so that I can modify the PointGrey.cfg file, but I have not had any luck getting that to work either.

Originally posted by eab on ROS Answers with karma: 16 on 2017-02-20
Post score: 0

A:

I ended up figuring out how to install from source. I was trying to copy just the pointgrey_camera_driver subfolder, but you need to do the entire repository so that the dependencies are met.
After doing this, I was able to change the PointGrey.cfg file and get higher frame rates.

Originally posted by eab with karma: 16 on 2017-02-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-21:
If you feel you have answered your own question, then could you please accept your own answer by clicking the checkmark to the left of your answer? Thanks.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-21:
As to the solution you ended up with: dynamic reconfigure is infrastructure that gets generated at compile time. So creating a workspace, cloning the sources, updating the config and then rebuilding is (at the moment) the only way to change the bounds for a config item.
Comment by eab on 2017-02-21:
It says I need more "points" to accept or unaccept my own answer.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-02-21:
I've just accepted it for you.

