Q:

Package to Interact with the turtlebot Simulator in Gazebo.''

How to create a package to Interact with the turtlebot Simulator in Gazebo using software outside,
What features I can use to interact with the simulation and turtlebot gazebo, have pretension to create a program to send and receive information from the simulation. So I would have a light on which way to publish and receive by an external software.
I can help xDDD

Originally posted by leobber on ROS Answers with karma: 15 on 2014-10-09
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Mehdi. on 2014-10-09:
Do you have the source code of the external software?
Comment by leobber on 2014-10-10:
The external code, still do, but would like to know which methods I can use to communicate with the ROS / turtlebot / Gazebo, an example would be to have a method to create publisher and subscriber out through that code, I wonder as if I do this and how it would be!
thank;;

A:

All you need is to follow this tutorial which explains in a very simple way how to write a c++ code to publish/subscribe to ros topics code and compile it with gcc linking to the roscpp library.
http://jbohren.com/articles/roscpp-hello-world/

Originally posted by Mehdi. with karma: 3339 on 2014-10-10
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by leobber on 2014-10-12:
Thank Mehdi, follow no doubt your help, but do not want to just make a publisher / subscribe to communicate with Turtlebot / gazebo, desire to make a program that from it we can send commands to the turtlebot the gazebo.
Comment by leobber on 2014-10-12:
an example of what I want to do clear that the simplest way would be what matlab does with this tool: http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/44853-use-matlab-ros-i-o-package-to-interact-with-the-turtlebot-simulator-in-gazebo
Comment by leobber on 2014-10-12:
I create a program so that we can interact with it to the gazebo and turtlebot first and then with the real robot, know I have to publish through the publisher and subscribe more I wonder if it would be possible to incorporate my software to make direct it exactly like that Matlab package.
Comment by leobber on 2014-10-12:
and which path I should follow to incorporate this direct communication of my software and receiving.I thank you very much your help! and the time it is devoting myself to answer my debts!
Comment by Mehdi. on 2014-10-12:
Well all interaction in ROS is based on publish/subscribe so I am pretty sure you can do whatever you want with that !! Controlling Turtlebot means publishing a command velocity message to the robot's topic responsible for that. And you are not limited to roscpp as library.
Comment by leobber on 2014-10-13:
Exactly, I will follow the tutorial that you pointed me to start understanding the part of how I do to create the functions that go to communicate and receive the ROS. I really appreciate your attention, if you are able to send me a contact to exchange an idea more specific about my work,
Comment by leobber on 2014-10-13:
can be email, whatsapp.
Thank you so much.

