Q:

Gmapping is adding extra points to my map that aren't from the laser scan

I'm running gmapping using the sick lms1xx driver for the lidar scans and wheel encoders for odometry. I'm having a problem with gmapping adding points to the map that are outside of my walls and are not reported by the laser scanner. Please see the image in the link below for details:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-GsWiHCK1neOUkwODZOX2RlRUE/view?usp=sharing
I've tried adjusting almost all of the parameters and I even tried filtering the laser scan message but the points don't exist in the laser scan so there isn't really anything to filter out. Hector mapping doesn't have this problem. Any thoughts on what's going on?
------- Edit: -------------
While hector mapping creates better looking maps without this issue, gmapping creates more accurate maps due to the underlying particle filter. Therefore, I would like to use gmapping over hector.
To highlight the issue even more, here are two maps, one made with hector and one with gmapping. Gmapping is adding quite a few additional points to the map that are not included in the laser scan data.
Hector: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-GsWiHCK1neUU1LMVI0c19vMTQ/view?usp=sharing
Gmapping: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-GsWiHCK1necFo3UmlWRDFVLWc/view?usp=sharing
Manually looking at the laser scan data, I can see that the min range is 0.0m and the max range is 12.17m, neither is close to my 50m laser maximum and both are well below the outlier points on the map which appear to be about 25m away from the robot. I also determined that the 0.0m points are not the problem by filtering those out.
Any further help is appreciated. Thanks.

Originally posted by Justin Miller on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2015-03-10
Post score: 0

A:

This looks fairly normal to me. Your laser is returning a max range reading, so gmapping is clearing all the way out. This could be a valid reading because of something like a window, or a spurious reading because of something like a very reflective or nonreflective surface, or an object at a very shallow angle to the beam. Multiple views of the same area may help, but if hector mapping works better for you, then use that.

Originally posted by Dan Lazewatsky with karma: 9115 on 2015-03-10
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by Justin Miller on 2015-03-10:
Thanks for the comments. I've edited my original post with more information. I don't believe that my laser is receiving a maximum range reading because I can't see it in the raw message, nor is there a point shown in RVIZ for the laser measurement at the gmapping outlier points. Any other thoughts?
Comment by Dan Lazewatsky on 2015-03-10:
If it's not the laser readings, I'm not sure what could be causing this. Watching the mapping progress in rviz might give some indication.

