Q:

What embedded platforms does ROS Support?

My team has been trying to install ROS on several embedded platforms lately – namely Raspberry Pi and Pandaboard – and support seems to be lacking for these platforms.
Is there an up-to-date list of exactly which $200-or-less embedded platforms (Beagleboard, Pandaboard, Raspberry Pi, etc.) ROS currently supports? Are there any groups that focus on making ROS work on cheaper platforms like these?
Thanks!

Originally posted by nckswt on ROS Answers with karma: 539 on 2013-01-15
Post score: 5

A:

I don't know that there is a list of statuses for all of the embedded systems out there, perhaps it is time to form a wiki page in the same way as the sensors page.  Perhaps http://ros.org/wiki/EmbeddedPlatforms ?
I believe that the best place to discuss embedded ROS would be the Embedded ROS SIG.
@tfoote recently sent out a survey of users of ARM-based platforms on the ros-users mailling list recently, you can view full text here
Finally, OSRF is hosting a workshop in early February, which may also be of some interest to you.

Originally posted by mjcarroll with karma: 6414 on 2013-01-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 6

Original comments
Comment by Raptor on 2013-01-17:
I like the idea of the Embedded Platforms page. It can also provide links to getting started pages and helpful documents to get ROS going on those particular embedded systems. Even a more general platforms page with an embedded section in it, listing all the computer platforms that ROS is running on
Comment by nckswt on 2013-01-17:
Any idea if there'd be a live feed from the workshop? I'm in Montreal, so it'll be difficult to get down there!
Comment by kalectro on 2013-01-17:
I just uploaded a raspi iso with the groovy desktop preinstalled. Unfortunately I did not manage to compile PCL and rviz, the rest should work. Instructions how to compile it from source and the image can be found here: http://www.ros.org/wiki/groovy/Installation/Raspbian/Source
Comment by nckswt on 2013-02-09:
That's awesome! Thanks kalectro!

