Q:

How to visualize/read string messages from Rosbag

I have received a bag file from a colleague and i need to analyze it. The file looks like this. 
How can i visualize this in rviz ? What type shoul i select here instead of point cloud ? 

Originally posted by aks on ROS Answers with karma: 667 on 2018-03-29
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-03-29:
Note: please review the support guidelines. Posting screenshots of textual content is strongly discouraged.

A:

How can i visualize this in rviz ?

std_msgs/String does not have a display type in RViz at the moment. It would also seem to be difficult, as plain strings do not carry any intrinsic semantic meaning (ie: automated interpretation is rather difficult).
More specifically, RViz renders messages in a 3D context, so it requires spatial information (initially) to be able to do that. It uses the frame_id field (ie: TF) in incoming messages for that.
std_msgs/String does not have that, so it cannot be visualised like this.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2018-03-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-03-29:
Note also that what you're running into is a result of the (mis)use of messages and the reason that using semantically meaningful and appropriate messages is always strongly encouraged.
Comment by aks on 2018-03-29:
Thanks for the explanation. I thought the same as well.
Then how can i atleast read this data ? one way is definitely to convert it into a csv file. I tried the following :rostopic echo -b file.bag -p /topic > data.txt but it gives a UnicodeDecodeError. Any idea ?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-03-29:
I'm not sure how well supported unicode/utf-8 is right now. If you have used characters from extended character sets this might cause problems.
It shouldn't though, so if you can create an MWE, you should report it.
Comment by aks on 2018-03-29:
Yes, i guess there are some chinese characters in it but i am not sure.

How can i check the contents of this bag file ?
If you look at the image above, the bagfile has a topic called /perception/kouliang and the message type is sim_l3_msg/kouliang. I do not actually know what is it ?

Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-03-29:
re: get at the contents of the bag: if you play the bag, can you rostopic echo .. the topics in question?
re: msg type: you would have to ask your colleague. That is a custom message, so he should know.

