Q:

Use a GPL package in a proprietary licensed software

Hello,
if I need to include nodes from a GPL licensed package (e.g. ar_pose) in my application's launch file, can my software have a proprietary license and be commercialized? I'm not linking ar_pose to my own code, I'm just subscribing to its published topics. And if I make some changes to ar_pose, I would just have to publish ar_pose with my modifications, right?
Thanks in advance!

Originally posted by Pedro on ROS Answers with karma: 102 on 2012-09-05
Post score: 1

A:

IANAL, but from my understanding it's not that simple and seems to be pretty open for interpretation (which is why I try to stay away from GPL code as much as possible).
The official FAQ is incredibly vague:
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#GPLInProprietarySystem
The two programs have to remain well separated for one to use a GPL license and one to use a proprietary one.  From my understanding this is why connecting to a GPL web server from a proprietary browser is ok (they are distinctly separate programs and the communications between them is common and generic).  I don't think however you can write a wrapper for a GPL library that just translates the function calls into TCP messages and communicate with it from a proprietary program.  They've essentially become one system at that point even though they don't actually link against one another.  I'm not sure where ROS falls on that spectrum.
There was another good discussion on the topic here:
http://answers.ros.org/question/12313/using-gpl-licensed-packages-in-a-commercial-product/
and a good, but equally vague/consult your lawyer for a final answer explanation here:
http://www.sitepoint.com/public-license-explained/

Originally posted by david.hodo with karma: 395 on 2012-09-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by dornhege on 2012-09-05:
Given the thread you linked, it sound to me like a "it depends on why the node is there".

