Q:

rosaria installation errors on raspberry pi 3 -

Hi,
I am using Raspberry Pi 3 under ubuntu mate 16.04 with ROS Kinetic (because raspbeian was not working for my setup). It worked perfectly fine and even better than when I did it under raspbein with ROS debian. But I am having a little problem.
First of all, when I tried to install ROSARIA through their official tutorial given here. However, as the tutorials are written for intel/amd processor, I am unable to follow it. In particulary, after running
cd ~/catkin_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/amor-ros-pkg/rosaria.git
cd ..
catkin_make

I get the following error
/catkin_ws/src/rosaria/LaserPublisher.cpp:5:25: fatal error: Aria/Aria.h: No such file or directory

I really wonder why that problem was occuring because I have done this on ROS-Kinetic under  ubuntu 16.04  and ROS-Indigo under Ubuntu 14.04 and it worked fine.
edit 1: It is also worth mentioning that I have been trying to install rosaria software through their official page (link) but I realized that all the given software are based on either ubuntu amd/intel processors. And so, I could not install any of them because I was seeing error of compatibility. I was seeing error that I cannot install because it was not compatible.
Please, suggest me what should I do. Thanks in advance for your help.

Originally posted by Abdul Mannan on ROS Answers with karma: 167 on 2016-10-16
Post score: 0

A:

OK, it worked. Although approach was the same, method was different. I followed these tutorials (link). Main problem was that Raspberry Pi 3 is an arm based architecture and all of the Aria Softwares (link) are based on intel/amd processor based architecture. So, here is what I did. It is important to mention that I was using ubuntu 16.06 mate and ROS-Kinetic.
The steps are as follows.

Follow the tutorial
(link)
till the software installation
(Aria).

Download Aria (link)

Go to the download directory

run sudo dpkg --force-all -i libaria_2.9.0+ubuntu12+gcc4.6_amd64.deb

run make clean.

run make -j4

It is worth mentioning that here in this stage, my setup was failed but just to make sure, I rant it again and the second time it worked. It was installed by my colleague in another machine and he experienced the same which means that it worked on second time

go to the ros workspace cd ~/catkin_ws

Run catkin_make --force-cmake

So, it worked.
Thanks to ReedHedges for helping me out. From his post above, I got the clue to resolve this issue.

Originally posted by Abdul Mannan with karma: 167 on 2016-10-22
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by ReedHedges on 2016-10-25:
Great.  Did you have any errors compiling ARIA on the Raspberry Pi?
ARIA 2.9.1 was just released, and with it are source-only packages you could use instead of dpkg -i --force-all.   (Ubuntu 16.04 binary packages for both i386 and amd64 are now available as well.)
Comment by ReedHedges on 2016-10-25:
Also note that the make clean and make commands after installing ARIA should be done inside the ARIA directory.
Comment by Abdul Mannan on 2016-10-26:
Yes. It worked fine. I used Aria 2.9.1. First time when I compiled, it gave me errors but second time, it worked. I have written down exactly what I did. I appreciate your valuable suggestion Sir. Thank you so much ReehHedges.

