Q:

"Smooth" inverse kinematics model for 2-wheeled differential drive robot

I have been reading about kinematic models for nonholonomic mobile robots such as differential wheeled robots. The texts I've found so far all give reasonably decent solutions for the forward kinematics problem; but when it comes to inverse kinematics, they weasel out of the question by arguing that for every possible destination pose there are either infinite solutions, or in cases such as $[0 \quad 1 \quad 0]^T$ (since the robot can't move sideways) none at all. Then they advocate a method for driving the robot based on a sequence of straight forward motions alternated with in-place turns.
I find this solution hardly satisfactory. It seems inefficient and inelegant to cause the robot to do a full-stop at every turning point, when a smooth turning would be just as feasible. Also the assertion that some points are "unreachable" seems misleading; maybe there are poses a nonholonomic mobile robot can't reach by maintaining a single set of parameters for a finite time, but clearly, if we vary the parameters over time according to some procedure, and in the absence of obstacles, it should be able to reach any possible pose.
So my question is: what is the inverse kinematics model for a 2-wheeled differential drive robot with shaft half-length $l$, two wheels of equal radii $r$ with adjustable velocities $v_L \ge 0$ and $v_R \ge 0$ (i.e. no in-place turns), and given that we want to minimize the number of changes to the velocities?

A:

While there may be an inverse kinematic solution, the most likely reason that your texts are avoiding the problem is because this sort of thing falls more naturally in the domain of AI and path planning.
In the simplest case, you should look at the Dubins path.  Balancing constraints like turning radius, maximum speed, etc, is what takes you from infinite solutions to a very reasonable set of possible movements.  Given a set of poses, you can plan Dubins paths between them for whatever cost function you prefer.
Here's an example paper on the topic: A Practical Path-planning Algorithm for a Vehicle with a Constrained
Turning Radius: a Hamilton-Jacobi Approach.

