Q:

What's the difference between feedback and feedforward control?

I'm reading from Astrom & Murray (2008)'s Feedback Systems: An introduction for scientists and engineers about the difference between feedback and feedforward.  The book states:

Feedback is reactive: there must be an error before corrective actions are taken.  However, in some circumstances, it is possible to measure a disturbance before the disturbance has influenced the system.  The effect of the disturbance is thus reduced by measuring it and generating a control signal that counteracts it.  This way of controlling a system is called feedforward.

The passage makes it seem that feedback is reactive, while feedforward is not.  I argue that because feedforward control still uses sensor values to produce a control signal, it is still reactive to the conditions that the system finds itself in.  So, how can feedforward control possibly be any different from feedback if both are forms of reactive control?  What really separates the two from each other?
A illustrative example of the difference between the two would be very helpful.

A:

In the simple models and block diagrams of control systems you will find in basic textbooks, they will show you a single diagram with a feedback section which uses measurements of the target parameter and a feedforward section which does not use the target paremeter.

Be ready to relax that definition when you get to the real world.
Treat it as terminology that helps you talk about a subset of a control system rather than a mathematical absolute. 
In simple control, the feedback portion of your control system is that which uses measurements of the parameter you are trying to control in its calculations.
But don't forget that we use the term for systems in general. A microphone pointed at a speaker causes the system to evolve in a predictable way and we say that feedback is causing the loud noise. 
So when we talk about feedback we are talking about how some characteristic of a system influences the evolution of that system.
When we talk about the feedback portion of a specific control system, we are focusing the conversation on the target parameter we are measuring and trying to control. 
Feedforward control is unrelated. At least that's the best way to start discussing it. In feedforward control, we are creating some model of the system and using that to change the target parameter to what we want. If we have a perfect model of the system then we know exactly what inputs to the actuation we need to change the target parameter. There's no need to measure the target parameter. So in simple theory, feedforward control is control that does not need to use measurements of the target parameter. 
But then things get messy. Creating good models is hard and we often use some sort of learning or system identification to create the model and update the model as things change. This will use measurements of the target parameter. Is it feedback? Yes. Do we call this feedback control? No.
Additionaly disturbances are always difficult to predict and if we can measure some or all of them we can improve the model for feedforward control. Are these measurements feedback? Yes. Do we call this feedback control? No.
Hopefully that gives you a little more understanding. I don't know Astrom & Murray's book, but I can see on google that quote comes from the introduction chapter. I expect that they will give you a more nuanced understanding of feedback and feedforward later.

A:

It is arguable what is called reactive and what is not... however what is measured by sensors and what information the controller possesses is not arguable.
In feedback control, the system's outputs are measured and if they do not match the desired output (reference) the controlled parameter is recalculated. If the input does not change, these differences usually come from disturbances. The controller has a feedback from the system's output which quantifies "how far" it is from the desired state, regardless of what causes this difference.
In feedforward control, the disturbances are measured and the controlled parameter is calculated based on some mathematical (or logical) model. There is no feedback to see if the system is really in the desired state or "how far" it is from the desired state. If disturbances that are not measured cause the system's outputs to differ from the desired one, the controller will not react.
So to formulate it with "reactive" I would say that feedback control is reactive since it reacts to changes in the system's output while feedforward is proactive since it acts before the system's output change. The important factor in control theory is the controlled system output; that is probably why reactive is defined from the point of view of the change in the system's output. 
Feedforward also reacts to something, but this something is not the system's output so from the point of view of the system's output it is not reactive. In feedforward control, the system's output can change without any reaction from the controller while in feedback control any change in the system output will provoke a reaction of the controller. Since the important aspect is the system's output and the feedforward controller does not react to changes in the output it can be considered a non-reactive control method.
Illustration from Wikipedia, (a) open loop, (b) feedforward, (c) feedback

A:

I argue that because feedforward control still uses sensor values to produce a control signal

For a theoritical discussion, your pre-assumption is wrong. A feedforward control logic need not depend upon the sensor value. Rather it depnds on the desired value. For example, If we have a simple rod hung like simple pendulum with a torsional spring at the pivot. Let's say we are operating this rod with a motor at the pivot. If we give 30 degree desire angle, then feedforward logic will send a duty, accordingly, to balance torsional spring rotated for 30 degree. Whereas, feedback logic will take care the real world scenario of air resistance. 

