Q:

HTTP server on board Turtlebot?

This should technically easy to do. Have people set up an HTTP server onboard a ROS robot, e.g. turtlebot3?
I want to allow remote control from a web app or mobile app of my robot, without requiring the client to be a ROS program. I want to use standard HTTP/HTML against the wireless connection, with the robot having a static IP address.
I think I need to locate the right python library that will do a simple web server and install and run it on the onboard Pi. In my googling I thought I saw that there was a problem with the interaction between threading of ROS and of an http server so something more elaborate was needed. Does anyone have a worked example?
Any thoughts or pointers?

Originally posted by pitosalas on ROS Answers with karma: 628 on 2017-07-31
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-07-31:
python -m SimpleHTTPServer with rosbridge_suite?
Comment by pitosalas on 2017-07-31:
In my googling I thought I saw that there was a problem with the interaction between threading of ROS and of an http server so something more elaborate was needed. Does anyone have a worked example?

A:

Have you taken a look at rosbridge_suite from ROS Web Tools? From the wiki:

Rosbridge provides a JSON API to ROS
functionality for non-ROS programs.
There are a variety of front ends that
interface with rosbridge, including a
WebSocket server for web browsers to
interact with. Rosbridge_suite is a
meta-package containing rosbridge,
various front end packages for
rosbridge like a WebSocket package,
and helper packages.

There's also ROStful. From the README:

ROStful is a lightweight web server
for making ROS services, topics, and
actions available as RESTful web
services. It also provides a client
proxy to expose a web service locally
over ROS.

These aren't HTTP servers and I'm not too familiar with either of these, but they may be close to what you're looking for.

Originally posted by jayess with karma: 6155 on 2017-07-31
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by pitosalas on 2017-07-31:
Good pointers. I followed them and found: https://github.com/asmodehn/rostful which is a fork and actually has a developer who is using it, so we will be trying that one! Thanks!

