Q:

How many methods can I use to acquire depth data?

I am a newbie in Robotics. As far as I know, there're generally two ways to acquire depth information of a scene. One is the stereo vision method which applies two cameras. The other is the RGBD sensors such as Kinect and Primesense. It seems that both methods are in use currently. However, I do not know what are their advantages against each other.
I think the Kinect is a perfect solution over stereo vision ignoring its expense. So I have two questions here:

Is there advantages of binocular methods over Kinect besides expense?
As I know, both the two methods are confined with a limited distance detection range. In real world applications, we sometimes also need depth data at distance. Is there a method that we can acquire or estimate data information at far distance( not considering  laser-based detectors ).

Further more, my application may be a small flight vehicle. Which method and equipment should I choose? Will the traditional binocular camera be too slow for my application?

A:

Actually kinect sensors are similar to stereo-cameras. They are made up of two devices, an IR emitter and a IR receiver. The emitter projects a light-dots pattern of known shape and size, while the other device receives the actual reflected dots. From the deformation of the pattern is possible to find out depth, but the maths behind it, as far as I know, is the same of stereo triangulation with known correspondences (see this video as an example).
The main disadvantages of kinect when compared to stereo-camera systems are:

it does not work outdoors
it has a range of a few meters (less than 8m). 

Stereo-cameras, on the contrary, work outdoors. Their range depends on the baseline, i.e. the distance between the cameras: the higher it is, the farther are the points that can be triangulated. However, most of commercial stereo-cameras, with baselines of few cm, have an accuracy of a few meters (see for example this commercial stereo device). 
You can build yourself a stereo-rig to match the accuracy you need, but if you want good accuracy the device will not be cheap if compared to a kinect (depends mostly on the cameras you think to buy) and will cost you time to set up.
Finally, if you have to triangulate very far points, then you probably need to use a Structure from Motion algorithm (see Wikipedia for a quick definition).

