Q:

Blooming with ros industrial CI pipelines

Hi guys,
I have a private repo on bitbucket cloud that I've integrated with Industrial_CI, which so far just does catkin build test on a docker image for me.This provides the CI framework for me, but I'd like to bloom and release my binaries. Is there a way to automate this?
I'm on bitbucket cloud so I've been using their pipelines to do this. Would ros build farm be a better solution for CI+ release?
Is ros buildfarm the only buildfarm solution outside of custom build farms? Is there something that works tightly with industrial_ci that i'm not aware of?

Originally posted by mugetsu on ROS Answers with karma: 195 on 2020-06-18
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-06-19:
Did you also post ros-industrial/industrial_ci#535?
Comment by mugetsu on 2020-06-19:
@gvdhoorn yes I did
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-06-20:
Then please close either the issue on the Github tracker or your question here.
Cross-posting like that is not a nice thing to do. It leads to split discussions in the best case, and duplicated (ie: wasted) effort in the worst.
Give the maintainer some time to answer.

A:

Is there something that works tightly with industrial_ci that i'm not aware of?

industrial_ci does not create binaries that can/should be released and there are no plans to extend it into this direction.

but I'd like to bloom and release my binaries. Is there a way to automate this?

I would strongly advise against automating the release to the public ROS distros.
Releases need some oversight, especially during their preparation (version bumps, changelogs).
Running bloom is the easiest step. You can even write a bash one-liner to release your packages for multipe distros.
Of course, you can do this as well in the deploy stage of your CI system.

Is ros buildfarm the only buildfarm solution outside of custom build farms?

ros_buildfarm is the script system that is used in the official ROS buildfarm.
It can be used for custom buildfarms as well, but it requires some maintenance effort.
Another option is buildbot-ros.
Depending on your use case you might not even need a full-fledged buildfarm.
You could bundle your release in any way you like.
Several approaches have been presented during ROScons.

https://roscon.ros.org/2016/ - Robust Deployment with ROS Bundles (Mike Purvis, Clearpath Robotics)
https://roscon.ros.org/2018/ - Hermetic Robot Deployment Using Multi-Stage Dockers (Levon Avagyan, Fetch Robotics)
https://roscon.ros.org/2019/ - Tailor CI: How Locus deploys ROS robots at scale (Paul Bovbel, Gary Servin, Locus Robotics)

Originally posted by Mathias Lüdtke with karma: 1596 on 2020-06-21
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

