Q:

Arduino for mobile robot

Is it possible to drive the whole mobile differential drive robot with single arduino? Sonar sensor, servo motor, two encoders, two motors, imu, etc. I mean would it give a reasonable performance or very slow or impossible? If we use two arduinos would it be much better?
For example, two motor+encoder, imu, one servo motor for sonar sensor and one sonar sensor, + bluetooth communication with pc. The task is for example building map of the room, and kinematic control for tracking some trajectory. I mean it should do PID control for motors, kinematic control for robot, sensor fusion for imu+encoders, communicate with PC (this is to do some computationally intensive tasks such as trajectory planning or to store maybe the complete map in pc etc.).

A:

It depends what Arduino you are going to use. I don't think that you can use Arduino Nano/Micro for this because you will not have enough I/O and memory. You can use Arduino Mega (maybe UNO) but you will have to utilize hardware interrupts for all the communication and measurement stuff. 
I have done a similar robot a few years ago utilizing interrupts only on Arduino MEGA 2560 runnig at 500 Hz (the computation for all PID regulators, IMU complementary filter and low pass filters for signals was made every 2ms).
Using interrupts you can drive up to 10x servo motors using just one timer, measure analog values by ADC, communicate using I2C/SPI/UART at almost no cost because all the work will be done by dedicated hardware and not by the CPU. This is why it is called a micro-controller and not a micro-processor. You will utilize the CPU just to process the results from the interrupts and compute values for PID regulators, filters, etc. The sad thing is that a lot of libraries are not using interrupt because it's easier that way and therefore waste a lot  of computation work just waiting for the result.
Nowadays, I would use a little bit more powerfull Arduino or another board that can run some kind of RTOS e.g. FreeRTOS. For this project is the Arduino Mega 2560 the absolute minimal requirement.
So the answer is simple: Yes, you can use Arduino but the less powerfull board you utilize the more sophisticated solution you will have to make.

