Q:

how to get an 8 hour autonomy for an underwater robot?

CONTEXT: I'm working on a project consisting of making an underwater robot "fish" for an aquarium. It is mandatory to get at least 8 hours of autonomy. I'm responsible of the electrical part of the project and during all of my bachelor degree I've never got any lecture on batteries and I have no idea on how to get what is required. But I managed to do some research and try to figure it out:

I took the power consumption of all the potential components necessary for the project (motors & pumps, Usound captors, ucontroller and a set of RF receiver and transmitters) from the specs and datasheets available.
I got a battery of a 1200 mAh capacity. The battery is originally used for quadrocopters, i figured it would be good for the project since it's relatively the same thing (a software and motors).

Thanks to some references (Battery university, Eletropaedia), I estimated the battery autonomy. I used an ideal estimation [=Battery Capacity/sum of power consumptions] and I supposed all the components worked 100% of the time.

The results I got is far bellow needed :(
Observations :
It seems that the pump is the only component to have an excessive consumption
Difficulties :

Since I have no experience in the field, I don't know if the battery I'm using is good.
The pump seems to be necessary and irreplaceable. I talked to the mechanical team and replacing the pump with something else will make the project unrealistic.
The 8 hours autonomy is a necessity to the project's success.
The underwater environment.
Dimensions (less than 8 inches long)

QUESTIONS : First, is the 8 hours autonomy doable? What should I do to get that? Change battery? Change pump? Use a totally different approach?
LINKS :
PUMP
BATTERY
Thank you for your time

A:

Thank you for your answers and comments. We finally decided to change the pump with a less energy consuming system. We're testing the prototype in the next to weeks we hope we get the estimated autonpmy

