Q:

How do you get catkin command to work?

From the other duplicate:
I'm watching ROS tutorials and keep getting stuck:
My system says:
"catkin: command not found"
Yet I've reloaded ROS a few times.  Even created a test user account in ubuntu 16.04
After I do half of all the Youtube ROS examples in Part 1 for example, I run any catkin command from anywhere in ubuntu 16.04 and I get msgs about "catkin: command not found"
Sheeesh
The good news is I never give up.  But WHY is catkin command not working?

Uninstalled and reloaded ROS Kinetic over and over again.  I get almost through ROS tutorial #1.
Then, tutorial says enter "catkin " something or another.
Result:
catkin: command not found.
Note: Using ROS Kinetic on ubuntu 16.04.3 LTC.
So I heard you need to create a non-admin user.
Did that.  Been there. Got the T shirt.
Even the new non-admin user can't get catkin commands to work.
Any help is appreciated as I never give up.
I solve this nasty, persistent problem or go on to more forums and ask it again.
And again..
Thanks in advance for any assistance!

Is catkin real or another weather balloon?

Originally posted by ju78iklo9 on ROS Answers with karma: 26 on 2017-11-12
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-11-12:\

I'm watching ROS tutorials and keep getting stuck:

and

After I do half of all the Youtube ROS examples in Part 1 [..]

The 'official' ROS tutorials are text only, so if you're watching videos that would have to be community contributed content. Always link to that in questions. It's ..
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-11-12:
.. impossible to help you otherwise.
Comment by jayess on 2017-11-14:
Exactly what command are you running? Where are you running it from (directory)? What tutorials?

A:

My system says:

"catkin: command not found"

The official tutorials (wiki/ROS/Tutorials) use catkin_make, so there the command would be:
catkin_make [...]

which would have been installed with a default ROS installation.

After I do half of all the Youtube ROS examples in Part 1 for example, I run any catkin command from anywhere in ubuntu 16.04 and I get msgs about "catkin: command not found"

[..]

But WHY is catkin command not working?

As I wrote in my comment, we don't know which videos you are watching as you forgot to link us to them (sheeeesh). But catkin (like that, not catkin_something_something) is a script in catkin_tools, which on Ubuntu (and similar systems) must be explicitly installed with something like sudo apt install python-catkin-tools (but after you've added the ROS package repositories to your system configuration).

Uninstalled and reloaded ROS Kinetic over and over again.

This is not Windows. Un/install is not going to solve the fact that you didn't install the package.

I get almost through ROS tutorial #1. Then, tutorial says enter "catkin " something or another.

Result:

catkin: command not found.

""catkin " something or another": I doubt it says "something or another".

So I heard you need to create a non-admin user.
Did that. Been there. Got the T shirt.
Even the new non-admin user can't get catkin commands to work.

This makes no sense to me. At all.

Is catkin real or another weather balloon?

..

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2017-11-12
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

