Q:

Cloned package not getting compiled

Hi,
I cloned a package from Github to my workspace and tried to catkin_make. But apparently, just that folder is being skipped and is not getting compiled. I tried deleting build and devel, nothing worked. No errors are thrown out, just that new folder is not getting compiled.
Thanks in advance.

Originally posted by Jayadev on ROS Answers with karma: 26 on 2019-05-22
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by PeteBlackerThe3rd on 2019-05-22:
Can you describe the structure of your work space and exactly where you have cloned the package to. We don't have enough information to be able to help you.
Comment by Jayadev on 2019-05-22:
It's a standard ROS workspace with an src folder holding all the packages. Currently, I have three packages, one created by me and two others cloned from Github. One of the cloned folders in not getting compiled. I guess the structure is fine.
Thank you for your response.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-05-22:
We don't do guesses here on ROS Answers.
What is the output of tree -d -L 1 /path/to/your/workspace (if you get an error, make sure to run sudo apt install tree and try again)?

Edit: also:

I cloned a package from Github

can you link to the repository? I have a suspicion this is a rosbuild package, which will not be built by Catkin.
Comment by Jayadev on 2019-05-22:
I'm sorry, but I'm pretty new to this. Excuse me if my questions are plain basic.
I tried the tree to get the workspace structure. tree: Invalid level, must be greater than 0. is the message I got. This is what I ran tree -d -L1 /home/user/workspace.
And the repository from which I cloned that package is https://github.com/lrse/ros-keyboard
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-05-22:
A space was missing between the L and the 1, I've updated the command.

A:

Found out that the package was actually getting compiled but with a different name as compared to the folder name itself because of that different name being tagged in package.xml by the developer, which was not mentioned anywhere. That's the reason I couldn't find the package when I used the folder name, which is normally the case.
Thank you for your time.

Originally posted by Jayadev with karma: 26 on 2019-05-24
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by PeteBlackerThe3rd on 2019-05-24:
Glad you got to the bottom of this. It's a good way to learn that the folder names do not necessarily match package names.

