Q:

Pointclouds extraction using the Bumblebee2 stereo camera

Hi guys,
This is my first results using the bumblebee2 and the "stereo_image_proc" node to extract pointclouds. I calibrated the camera with the "camera_calibration" node using the -k 6 option and got an epi ratio of around 0.25.
link:PointCloud
What do you think about this results ? is it possible to have a better calibration and a better pointcloud ?
what are the best calibration conditions ?
Is there any way to process this pointcloud to get the same result than this one : link:viso2_ros
Stephan, can you please tell me how did you process your pointcloud (The one in the video below) and what epi ratio you got after the calibration of your Bb2 ?
Does your "viso2_ros" perform the Slam that we can see in this same video ?
link:viso2_Video
Thank you guys for your responses

Originally posted by INSA on ROS Answers with karma: 112 on 2013-04-04
Post score: 2

A:

Your clouds look very good!
Regarding the video on the viso2_ros wiki page: The object is at a distance of about 1m and it has a very good texture.
To get the reconstruction, we downsampled the point clouds using VoxelGridFilter and accumulated them in rviz using viso2_ros to generate odometry, setting the fixed frame in rviz to /odom and the decay time of the PointCloud2 display to 10 seconds. You can use fovis_ros for the visual odometry as well. There is no SLAM algorithm in the background so the reconstruction will suffer from drift after a couple of seconds. I don't remember what we got as epipolar error during our calibration. I think 0.25 is okay.
EDIT:
If you want to slow down processing (stereo_image_proc can get quite busy on calculating point clouds) you can throttle one input topic for stereo_image_proc.

Originally posted by Stephan with karma: 1924 on 2013-04-04
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by INSA on 2013-04-04:
Thank you Stephan for your help. What about the blank areas in the pointcloud ? Specially when i move the camera. How can i fill these empty spaces ? maybe with Temporal Filtering ? Your Pointcloud has no empty spaces...
Comment by Stephan on 2013-04-05:
I suppose the texture is not unique enough for block matching. You could try to adapt the stereo_image_proc parameters correlation_window_size and/or uniqueness_ratio. In the end, if there is no texture the algorithm is unable to match the area from left to right image. Paint your walls! ;-)

