Q:

How many DOFs required to define a 3D pose

I understand that to be able to define point in 3D space, you need three degrees of freedom (DOFs). To additionally define an orientation in 3D space, you need 6 DOFs. This is intuitive to me when each of these DOFs defines the position or orientation along one axis or an orthogonal X-Y-Z system.
However, consider a robot arm such as this: http://www.robotnik.eu/robotics-arms/kinova-mico-arm/. This too has 6 DOFs, but rather than each DOF defining a position or orientation in an X-Y-Z system, it defines an angular rotation of one joint along the arm. If all the joints were arranged along a single axis, for example, then these 6 DOFs would in fact only define one angular rotation.
So, it is not true that each DOF independently defines a single position or orientation. However, in the case of this robot arm, it can reach most positions and orientations. I'm assuming this is because the geometry of the links between the joints make each DOF define an independent position or orientation, but that is a very vague concept to me and not as intuitive as simply having one DOF per position or orientation.
Can somebody offer some help in understanding these concepts?

A:

A 6-DOF robotic arm may not always be able to manipulate an object in all the directions and orientations in 3-D space from a particular position and orientation. Such a pose(position + orientation) is called as a singular position of the robotic arm. Mathematically, the robotic arm attains a singularity when the determinant of its Jacobian goes to zero. For eg., consider your arm itself which is a 7-DOF mechanism. When the human arm is fully stretched, the arm can no more move in certain directions in 3D space, an obvious one being in the direction along the arm. Such a position is called as singular position. A much simpler case is to imagine a planar robotic arm with 2-DOF with both being revolute joints. When this is completely stretched, it can only manipulate objects along a circle. All the points on the circle are points of singularity. If the arm moves slightly inside the circle, then it regains its ability to move along all the direction. 
As you say, it is not true that each joint of the robotic arm contributes to one of the 6DOFs in space. All the joint motions contribute together in manipulating the object in 3D space. These concepts are covered in any introductory book on robotics. To get an in-depth mathematical understanding, you may go through the topics on forward kinematics and inverse kinematics. Getting a mathematical understanding will certainly improve your intuition and further the imagination of the motion of such robotic arms. 

