Q:

What is self collide? and what is difference between visual and collision?

Hey There, I am new to ROS and Gazebo. I want to know what is the self collide what is the use of it (when it true or false) and also the difference between visual and collision? ( I am facing these words while using Link inspector)

Originally posted by GLV on ROS Answers with karma: 33 on 2018-09-25
Post score: 1

A:

From the sdf format spec :
If set to true, all links in the model will collide with each other (except those connected by a joint). Can be overridden by the link or collision element self_collide property. Two links within a model will collide if link1.self_collide OR link2.self_collide. Links connected by a joint will never collide.

From the wiki :
<visual> (optional)

    The visual properties of the link. This element specifies the shape of the object (box, cylinder, etc.) for visualization purposes. Note: multiple instances of <visual> tags can exist for the same link. The union of the geometry they define forms the visual representation of the link. 

<collision> (optional)

    The collision properties of a link. Note that this can be different from the visual properties of a link, for example, simpler collision models are often used to reduce computation time. Note: multiple instances of <collision> tags can exist for the same link. The union of the geometry they define forms the collision representation of the link. 

To sum up : Self collide will tell that the elements of the robot can collide with each others, the visual will define the shape of each element in your urdf and the collision their "hitbox".
For further explainations maybe ask on the gazebo forum which is more suitable for your question.

Originally posted by Delb with karma: 3907 on 2018-09-25
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by GLV on 2018-09-25:
Thank Mr. Delb, it helps me.
Comment by mgruhler on 2018-09-25:
@GLV, if this answered your question, please mark it as correct by clicking the checkmark next to the answer. You can only mark one, so I suggest to mark the one from @Delb, as this is more comprehensive.

