Q:

[Solved] Problem getting startet with irobot_create_2_1 in Python

For my bachelors thesis I am currently getting to know the IRobot Create with a TurtleCore and an Overo Fire COM by Gumstix.
Until now I managed to get an Ubuntu 10.04 running on the Overo COM and installed ROS Diamondback and the Browndrivers from the repositories (with apt-get).
I created a new ROS-Workspace in my home directory and started a new package (as described in the Tutorials on the ROS-Wiki).
In my new node (written in Python) I import the Messages and Services published by the irobot_create_2_1 driver with "from irobot_create_2_1.srv import *" and "from irobot_create_2_1.msg import SensorPacket".
When I try to run my program I get the following error:
"ImportError: No module named irobot_create_2_1.srv"
What do I have to do so the import won't fail?
UPDATE:
Thanks Lorenz, it's working now (I didn't have the driver as a dependency). As for the turtlebot drivers: Since the Overo Fire uses an ARM-Processor and the brown-drivers are the only binaries available to control the Create on ARM, I was going with this approach. I tried compiling the turtlebot drivers but I had a lot of unmet dependencies and frustrating hours trying to gather them.

Originally posted by mind4z on ROS Answers with karma: 15 on 2012-10-16
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Lorenz on 2012-10-16:
The turtlebot drivers are written in python. To use them, you should use at least electric, better fuerte though. But then, getting all dependencies compiled shouldn't be too hard.
Comment by mind4z on 2012-10-16:
I'm really new to ROS and it's concepts. So after your comment I guess that using the turtlebot drivers doesn't necessarily mean installing the whole turtlebot package. Or am I wrong again?
Comment by Lorenz on 2012-10-16:
Right. You just need to build the package turtlebot_node and its dependencies. That shouldn't be too bad since it mostly depends on standard ros packages. The only non-standard dependency is kdl.
Comment by mind4z on 2012-10-16:
Ok, so I'm going to try it your way... will open a new question if (most probably) there will be more problems ;-)

A:

Did you add the package as a dependency in your manifest file? Did you execute roslib.load_manifest('your_package') right at the beginning of your python file?
Btw. I suggest to use the turtlebot driver when using an iCreate. The turtle driver is maintained by Willow and well tested.

Originally posted by Lorenz with karma: 22731 on 2012-10-16
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

