Q:

How to subscribe to published topics in Baxter SDK environment

I have a c++ program that publishes three topics.
When the rostopic list command is used on the terminal it displays the list of ros topics . After running the code that publishes the topics when I run the command in the workspace normally it displays the topics I published on the terminal, but when I initialize my baxter environment using the ./baxter.sh command and run the same command it does not show the topics on the terminal.
When the rostopic echo <name of topic> command is run on the terminal it shows the value of the topic. When I run the command in the workspace normally it displays the value of which topic I chose, but when I initialize my baxter environment using the ./baxter.sh command  and run the same command it does not display the values of the topics on the terminal.
I also have a python program that subscribes to the published topics the does some calculations on their values then displays the result on the terminal. When I run the program in my workspace normally it displays the the results on the terminal as it is supposed to, but when I use the ./baxter.sh command to initialize the Baxter environment just as above the code doesn't display the values.
I don't get any error messages it just does not display the published topics when I initialize my Baxter environment. I want to know why I can't see the the published topics or subscribe to them after I initialize my Baxter environment and also how to fix this problem.
I am using ROS indigo on Ubuntu 14.04.
Also when I after I execute c++ program If I use command rosnode list  on the terminal the name of the node is shown on the terminal but when I initialize my Baxter environment using  ./baxter.sh  and I try the same command the node doesn’t up on the terminal.

Originally posted by fundamentals on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2017-03-09
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-03-09:
"Do not work" and "do not show" are too vague. Please tell us exactly what it is that you're doing. Include messages that you see on the console when you start your programs and perhaps show some samples of code that you're using. Also: which version of ROS, which OS, how installed, etc.
Comment by fundamentals on 2017-03-09:
@gvdhoorn I tried making some edits to the question
Comment by biorobotics on 2020-04-17:
Hello, I have a same problem with you. I'm using a python and also ubuntu 14.04.
Did you solved the problem? Could you show me how do you solved it? :)

A:

It seems that you're having trouble with your ROS networking, and the associated Linux environment variables that allow bi-directional ROS communication. The ./baxter.sh script is a convenience script to help you set these viarables. Please see this tutorial from Rethink on how to set up the baxter.sh script
If you'd like a deeper dive into Baxter ROS networking, Rethink has a Networking Page that describes the ROS Naming conventions according to your networked environment. Finally, it might be useful to check out the ROS Environment variables page, looking at ROS_MASTER_URI and ROS_IP / ROS_HOSTNAME in particular.

Originally posted by imcmahon with karma: 790 on 2017-03-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by fundamentals on 2017-03-13:
@imcmahon I have tried the instructions in the links but none of them worked

