Q:

Missing colladadom - Ros groovy source compilation on archlinux

I have been trying to install Ros for the past 3 days. I couldnt compile the collada-parser because of it i couldnt compile other packages too..urdf all..
The error is mainly related to colladadom package which was previously present in robot_model fuerte was not available in the repo now.
I also tried compiling the colladadom package from their website. But I couldnt compile that packages too because some boost library version issues..
And I also have the problem of compiling PCL & opencv .. But I have both the libraries compiled from their sources. So I deleted those stacks.
I dont want to clutter the post by pasting any errors.
Has anyone successfully compiled the ros_groovy on archlinux? Can it be or not?
I mean the desktop version or robot version.not the bare_bones one,

Originally posted by myth on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2013-01-19
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Claudio on 2013-01-22:
I'm attempting to compile groovy from sources on a Pandaboard.
I'm trying with the mobile variant.
PCL I just moved out from the sources, I'm not sure I need that.
Collada was missing dae.h, I sourced it from the fuerte install I have on my laptop.
Which variant are you trying to install?

A:

If you want to install ROS Groovy on Arch Linux, the easiest way is to use AUR packages.
There is something that you need to realize: packaging ROS Groovy under Arch Linux can get quite complicated since it's a rolling release and Groovy is already outdated. This is especially true for complex libraries such as PCL or Gazebo that pull tons of dependencies.
Most of the packages are made/maintained by two people (zootboy and I), which is why it's not foolproof, so feedback is always welcome. If a problem happens when installing packages, try to contact the maintainers (you can leave a message on the related AUR package page).
As for collada-dom, PCL, opencv, collada_parser or collada_urdf, official packages and/or AUR packages exist.

Originally posted by bchr with karma: 596 on 2014-01-14
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

