Q:

kinematic links use case?

Hello everybody!
I'm making some SDFs. I noticed that both the model and the link types support the  tag.
When referring to the model, I can understand the reasoning: you want to move this model by writing velocities to its base links or to each individual joint perhaps.
But having a kinematic link doesn't work as I would expect.
Expectation: The link has no weight (since its inverse inertia is set to 0 by the ODE implementation). You cannot apply a force to it. But if you fix it to the base link (with a fixed joint) it will follow the body base link hapily.
Reality: The (child) kinematic link is fixed in place if you don't write a velocity to it. Applying a force to the base link (where the child link is attached with a fixed joint) results in no motion, because the child link prevents the whole model from moving. This sounds a bit counter productive.
Is there a good use case for a kinematic link, which you couldn't do with a kinematic model?
Thank you for your time!

Originally posted by Georacer on Gazebo Answers with karma: 37 on 2020-10-15
Post score: 0

A:

I love kinematic links, they're great for cheating/hacking things. For example, let's say I have a rope model and I want to pretend it's being held by at each end by some magical floating grippers. Instead of applying forces and a closed-loop controller to try to make the grasped points stay at some position or follow a trajectory, I can just make those links kinematic, and call SetWorldPose. If I do this, the rest of the rope will be dynamic and respect physics, but the fake-grasped-points will move kinematically.
What you expect is easily made exactly as  you describe -- just make a link (not kinematic) which has no mass and has a fixed joint to the base.

Originally posted by Peter Mitrano with karma: 768 on 2020-10-15
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Georacer on 2020-10-15:
So you're using them with a free ball joint. Great use case!
"What you expect is easily made exactly as you describe -- just make a link (not kinematic) which has no mass and has a fixed joint to the base."
I would expect applying a force to a zero-mass link to throw the solver out of whack, but I guess I'll find out soon enough.
Thanks!
Comment by Peter Mitrano on 2020-10-26:
another option is to merge the links. you can have multiple collision and or visual elements in one link
Comment by Georacer on 2020-10-26:
My intention wasn't to use the extra link as a collision carrier, but to actually help me get its local frame state and apply local wrenches, so merging wasn't an option.
Comment by danzimmerman on 2021-02-11:
This answer was super helpful. I'll come back when I have enough karma to upvote.
<kinematic> as a moveable boundary condition is really very useful.

