Q:

ROS indigo installation for Ubuntu ARM (Jetson TK1) Ubuntu 14.04

I'm trying to install ROS indigo on my Jetson TK1, following the steps as stated here. However, I'm facing a problem when running sudo apt-get ros-indigo-ros-base. This is the error I receive:
$ sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-ros-base
[sudo] password for ubuntu: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-indigo-ros-base : Depends: ros-indigo-actionlib but it is not going to be installed
                       Depends: ros-indigo-bond-core but it is not going to be installed
                       Depends: ros-indigo-class-loader but it is not going to be installed
                       Depends: ros-indigo-common-tutorials but it is not going to be installed
                       Depends: ros-indigo-dynamic-reconfigure but it is not going to be installed
                       Depends: ros-indigo-nodelet-core but it is not going to be installed
                       Depends: ros-indigo-pluginlib but it is not going to be installed
                       Depends: ros-indigo-ros-core but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

Can anyone help me out please?

Originally posted by Andrew.A on ROS Answers with karma: 324 on 2014-10-29
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Andrew.A on 2014-10-29:
No I didn't! Just enabled them and it's running great now. Thanks!

A:

Do you have the ubuntu universe and multiverse repositories enabled?
UPDATE
According to https://github.com/ros-perception/image_pipeline/issues/176; Nvidia is now packaging a newer version of OpenCV in opencv4tegra, and it's no longer version- or ABI-compatible with the default Ubuntu libraries.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2014-10-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by ahendrix on 2016-03-22:
As noted in http://answers.ros.org/question/229562/problem-with-install-ros-indigo-on-jetson-tx1-ubuntu-1404/ , you also need to enable the Ubuntu main repository if it is not enabled.

