Q:

Robotic arm ["FAiL"] error display. - Festo / Mitsubishi Melfa RV-2AJ (Controller CR1-571)

To avoid wasting your time on this question, you might only want to react on this if you have knowledge of industrial robotic arms specific.
Common troubleshooting is unlikely to fix this problem or could take too much time.
We've started a project with the Mitsubishi Melfa RV-2AJ robotic arm.
Everything went fine until the moment we replaced the batteries.
The controller displays: "FAiL" and does not respond to any buttons or commands sent through serial connection.
We did replace the batteries of both the robot and the controller. As it took some time to get the batteries delivered, we've left the robot (and controller) withouth power for the weekend. (Which might have caused this problem)
Is there anyone with knowledge of Mitsubishi Robotic arms around here?
I'm kinda hoping it would be a common problem/mistake and anyone with experience on this subject would know about it?

A:

After some googling I found that there is an explanation & fix guide, only in German, for this.

It'll be of use for others having the same problem.
I'll try my very best to translate it a bit, please note that German, not English, is my main language:

Concerning "FAIL" in the display of the robotcontroller after voltage drop from back-up batteries (general). - KS00527
When the battery voltage is unsufficient to keep the buffer (which
  holds the settings of the powered-off robot), the display will show
  the message: "FAIL".
To reset this message/state, a RAM data reset is needed. After this
  reset, all programs and position data in the robotcontroller will be
  erased and the parameters will be reverted.
The procedure (RAM data reset) is as following:

Press STOP and RESET at the same time, while the controller is being activated.
The robot controller display would show "|----|".
Releave the STOP and RESET buttons.
Press RESET untill the display will show "EnG".
Press START once.
Press RESET until the display shows your Robot type
Press Start once.
The robot controller display would show "rAMc9".
After ~15-25 sec. (depending on the contents of the RAM?) you'll see a countdown from "100-0".
The message "ok" will appear on the dispaly.
Finally the robot will automatically reboot. (Didn't happen for us though)

I believe the procedure might differ a little per controller, but this would get you going.

The original text:

Anzeige FAIL im Display der Robotersteuerung nach Spannungsverlust der
  Pufferbatterien (General) - KS00527 Wenn die Batteriespannung die
  Einstellungen der ausgeschalteten Robotersteuerung nicht mehr puffern
  kann, zeigt das Display nach dem Einschalten die Anzeige FAIL an. Um
  diese zu beseitigen hilft nur ein RAM Daten Reset. Nach diesem Reset
  sind alle Programme, Positionsdaten in der Robotersteuerung gelöscht
  und die Parameter auf Werkseinstellung zurückgesetzt. Die Prozedur ist
  wie folgt : - Drücken Sie die STOP und RESET Taste gleichzeitig,
  während der Controller eingeschaltet wird. - Im Display wird ”I- - -
  -I” angezeigt. - STOP und RESET Taste loslassen - Die Taste RESET so oft drücken bis ”EnG” im Display angezeigt wird. - Drücken Sie einmal
  die START Taste. - Drücken Sie die Taste RESET oder STOP so oft bis im
  Display angezeigt wird. - Drücken Sie einmal die START Taste. - Im
  Display wird nun ”rAMc9” angezeigt. - Nach ca. 15-25 sec (abhängig vom
  Inhalt des RAM Speichers) sieht man im Display einen Countdown von
  ”100-0”. - Es erscheint kurz die Meldung ”ok” im Display. -
  Abschließend bootet der Controller selbsttätig neu.

Source: https://eu3a.mitsubishielectric.com/fa/en/service/knowledgebase?m_culture=de&ks=527
KS00527 of the GERMAN knowledgebase on Mitsubishi (Somehow German people may know things the English aren't allowed to? :D (You can't find it in English))

