Q:

sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-desktop-full (E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.)

hi,
i installed ros-indigo in Ubuntu 14.04. i removed ros-indigo. i decide reinstall this agian , but when run this command (sudo apt-get install ros-indigo-desktop-full) in terminal, this error is created:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-indigo-desktop-full : Depends: ros-indigo-desktop but it is not going to be installed
                           Depends: ros-indigo-simulators but it is not going to be installed
                           Depends: ros-indigo-urdf-tutorial but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

Originally posted by zahra.kh on ROS Answers with karma: 21 on 2018-02-11
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-02-11:
One thing to check: did you a any point install a version of Gazebo newer than 2 (ie: gazebo7 fi)? If so, remove it. Then try again.

A:

Hi,
I was having this problem with my installation earlier today although I was installing kinetic. I got around this by first installing aptitude
sudo apt-get install aptitude

then using aptitude to install ros
sudo aptitude install ros-<package>-desktop-full

Originally posted by nickd with karma: 92 on 2018-02-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by zahra.kh on 2018-02-11:
thanks nickd, my problem is solved!
Comment by jayess on 2018-03-01:
@zahra.kh if this solved your problem then please click the next to the answer to mark the answer as correct.
Comment by shahriarMJ on 2020-07-18:
I had same problem with Installing ROS 2 Eloquent Elusor. I just deleted the full tag from the end of  sudo aptitude install ros-<package>-desktop-full command.
Hope it will help somebody

