Q:

Supplying power from a power bank to an arduino and DC Motors

I have a two port powerbank capable of supplying a maximum of 5V 2.1A
I'm using it to power an Arduino and a L293D IC connected to two DC motors which have the following specifications:

Working voltage : 3V to 9V
No-load current = 60 mA, Stall current = 700 mA

The setup is not working and I have made the following observations
1) The voltage across the output terminals of the powerbank is read as 4.9V (when the arduino is not powered either from the other port of the power bank or another power supply all together)
2) The voltage across the output terminals of the powerbank is read as 4.0V when the Arduino is powered either from the other port of the power bank or my laptop
This voltage is given to the L293D Pin 8 (That is meant to be given 12V). A 12V to 5V buck provides the 5V to the IC itself (this is part of the motor driver board)
3) When only one motor is switched on, the voltage provided to that motor is 2.8V. The motor rotates only when given some manual force on the axle.
4) When both motors are switched on, the voltage provided to each motor is around 0.5V. Both the motors don't rotate at all.
5) When only one motor is switched on, the voltage reads around 0.2V until given manually rotating the axle after which it picks up speed.
I couldn't measure the current (or rather measured current to be 0A) anywhere as the motors don't rotate at all if I connect the ammeter. I understand that the power bank supplies power only when the load connected to it demands the power (due to smart sensing).
What should I do so that the power bank continually provides 5V and this 5V is delivered to each motor?

A:

Are you sure the problem is about smart sensing ?
You should look about your 12V to 5V converter. Most of these devices require a minimum voltage above the desired voltage.
Typically, many 5V regulators requires 7V input.
Also, is this regulator necessary ? Since your powerbank supply 5V, you don't need to lower the voltage.

