Q:

VSCode debug cpp ROS node

Hi,
I am trying to debug my cpp ROS node, based on the microepsilon_scancontrol (I am porting it to the latest driver).
I can build with catkin, I can start it, but ofc not perfect (why would it..).
Therefor, I would like to debug it. I am using:

Ubuntu 16.04
VSCode + cpp extension (Microsoft)
ROS kinetic
https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ajshort.ros

When I start debug I select ROS debugger and run my code with roslaunch (or rosrun, doesn't matter... same result). My node starts in the built-in console, but basically that's it, nothing more. Even if I add some brakepoints, doesn't matter, won't stop, keep running.
What am I missing?
Also this automatic include generator doesn't seem to work. glibconfig.h is missing for some reason (I can build my code with catkin_make, so it has to be somewhere). And to be honest it is not really generating all of the includes, vscode offers me to add this and that, but when it comes to glibconfig.h it stops and ask me to add it manually.
Do you guys have some advice how to debug nodes in the given environment?
Thanks!

Originally posted by balint.tahi on ROS Answers with karma: 50 on 2019-01-22
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by Isha Dijcks on 2019-01-22:\

run my code with roslaunch (or rosrun, doesn't matter... same result).

Do you mean you type roslaunch/rosrun in the built-in terminal?
Comment by balint.tahi on 2019-01-22:
ofc not. debug screen -> play button (or pressing F5), then I select ROS -> roslaunch (or rosrun) -> my package -> launch file. and then it starts a new console.

A:

I believe this is exactly what you're looking for.
I know this is a relatively old post, but I recently came across this page still feeling lost. I then found the above doc on the vscode-ros github, and it literally walks you through how to debug a node even when launching from a *.launch file. I do believe it is important to build your catkin workspace using the following line like it says in the notes.
$ catkin_make -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo

Originally posted by stephanst with karma: 136 on 2020-07-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 9

Original comments
Comment by curiousgeorge on 2021-10-14:
created an account just to thank you. this did it for me

