Q:

Why do space probes need heating?

I know that temperature influences the characteristics of semiconductors and other materials, but we know how and can take that into account. Furthermore, lower temperatures makes electronics more efficient, sometimes even superconducting.
I remember reading somewhere that engineers building Curiosity even considered low temperature electronics for the motors driving the wheels but still decided against it in the end.
Why is it, apparently, so hard to build components with operating temperatures matching those on Mars, Europa, or in space?
Edit: None of the answers address my question thus far. I know that all parts, both electronic and mechanical, and greases and so on have relatively narrow working temperatures. My question is, why don't we build special cold metals and cold greases and cold chips that have their narrow operating temperature band at -100 C or whatever?
Valid answers could be: it's too expensive, insufficient science has been done to determine materials appropriate for such cold, such cold materials cannot be manufactured in the sweltering heat of planet Earth.

A:

Because the parts work reliably only in a limited range of temperatures. If the temperature is out of the range, the chips may not work correctly or even not work at all.
Probes usually also have some kind of backup battery and batteries lose capacity really fast if they get colder than 0°C. It simply is easier and more efficient to keep the battery and electronics warm than to compensate for different characteristics.

A:

Because there is not enough research and development done in the manufacturing process of electronic components in low temperatures. And the probes must be reliable.  
You can not make parts in i.e. 250'C and expect them to work in -100'C because for example a chip has silicon parts as well as tungsten parts. These two have different temperature versus extension characteristics, so the parts would simply fall apart.
In low temperatures you can't use tin for soldering see tin pest.  

