Q:

Build ros-fuerte from source, agains boost 1.49.0

Hi, all:
I'm just wondering how I can build ros-fuerte from source again boost 1.49.0?
My environment: Ubuntu 12.04
ROS version: fuerte
I just want to use some of the manually installed packages, instead of the default ones grabbed from the repository.
Since I'm not using the default boost 1.46.1, I obtained the following error messages
executing command [sudo apt-get install -y ros-fuerte-ros]
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ros-fuerte-ros : Depends: libboost-all-dev but it is not going to be installed
                  Depends: ros-fuerte-rospack but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.
ERROR: the following rosdeps failed to install
  apt: command [sudo apt-get install -y ros-fuerte-ros] failed

at the last but 2 step, say
rosdep install -ay

when building Higher-level/tools (Layer 2) .
Can anybody give me a hand?
cheers
Pei

Originally posted by jiapei100 on ROS Answers with karma: 31 on 2012-06-08
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by ipso on 2012-07-08:
Please replace the blockquotes with '>'. No closing tags needed. This would make your question easier to read. If you just want to preserve formatting of your copy/pasted console text, use '    ' (four spaces) in front of each line.

A:

Could you clarify the technical details a bit more?

I'm just wondering how I can build ros-fuerte from source again boost 1.49.0? [..] I just want to use some of the manually installed packages, instead of the default ones grabbed from the repository.

Does this mean you want to build all of ROS from source, but not its dependencies, or do you want to build some ROS packages from source (to be able to build them with boost 1.49)?

In case you want to build all of ROS from source, but satisfy some of the dependencies with locally installed packages /source (which are not present in apt's database):
I'm not sure about compatibility of Fuerte with Boost 1.49, but for the Ubuntu/Debian side you could look into equivs. This would allow you to create a meta-package with which you could trick apt into thinking that the prerequisites have been installed.
This is somewhat of an 'advanced' technique though, as you can create some pretty interesting apt conflicts this way, but might offer you a way around the strict dependencies.

Originally posted by ipso with karma: 1416 on 2012-07-08
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

