Q:

What is the track in bloom-release needed for?

I do not get why this is needed for. Some of the documentation and some of the answers on this topic are deprecated.
Because e.g. the link in http://answers.ros.org/question/59505/where-to-find-existing-track-in-release-repository/ is broken I'd also like to know the current state on that answer so:
Is the track like a branch for the specific ROS version or could I use the same track e.g. for indigo and jade? Where is this information used / stored? Do I always have to specify a track?

In the bloom-release command you ran
above, you specified the --track. By
convention you should create tracks
with the same name as the ROS distro
you are releasing for, but you could
name your track what ever you wanted.

This means to me that it does not matter any longer..

Originally posted by Matthias Hadlich on ROS Answers with karma: 70 on 2017-01-16
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-01-16:\

This means to me that it does not matter any longer..

From a language perspective: the name itself doesn't matter, that sentence does not tell you that you can re-use tracks for different ROS distributions.
You could use joe as a track name for Indigo, and jack for Kinetic fi.
Comment by Matthias Hadlich on 2017-01-16:
So I can only use it to provide an alias for the rosdistro names? And what purpose does this have?
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-01-16:
I was only commenting on your implied "the text seems to tell me it doesn't matter what I do" remark. I did not say anything about the technical implications / implementation.
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2017-01-16:
I've updated the link in #q59505. Not sure how that influences your understanding of things though.
Comment by Matthias Hadlich on 2017-01-16:
Okay thanks. Not really though :/

A:

The idea behind a track was that you could make multiple releases for the same ROS distro. Bloom, doesn't actually care about the ROS distro in all cases. You could have have a track called debian_sid or `version_x.y, for example which isn't tied to a ROS distribution. We don't end up doing that very often, so the recommendation is to just match the track name to the ROS distribution. See:
https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/bloom/issues/181

Originally posted by William with karma: 17335 on 2017-01-20
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

