Q:

How often do I need to source "setup.bash"?

Hello all,
I know this is really noob question but here it goes.
I saw (while studying the tutorials) that I need to source the devel/setup.bash at every new shell. I would like to ask, what exactly does that mean? I need to source the setup.bash file with every new terminal? If not, then how oftern?

Originally posted by Metalzero2 on ROS Answers with karma: 293 on 2015-04-08
Post score: 6

A:

Yes, with every new shell/terminal that is opened, I need to source my file. (terminal = shell ... in some way).
So how can this become automatically?
The answer that @SAI KISHOR KOTHAKOTA was correct. But because I am a noob, it took me some time and research to find out what exactly he meant and what I needed to do. So I will write down here, in a step-by-step way, how I did it and then some explanation.
STEPS:

Open your terminal
Write the command --> gedit ~/.bashrc
I file will open on gedit
Go to the bottom (my last line was "source /opt/ros/indigo/setup.bash" , for others it may differ)
Go under that line and write --> source [YOUR PATH]/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash
Save and exit
Now with every new shell you open, it will source automatically

Explanation:
So, from what I know, the .bashrc file runs automatically for every new shell you open. So now, every time you open a shell, all of those command run plus the new command you added (the source command).
Tnx again to @SAI KISHOR KOTHAKOTA :)

Originally posted by Metalzero2 with karma: 293 on 2015-04-09
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 11

Original comments
Comment by neuronet on 2016-07-25:
Thanks for this helpful explanation. It wasn't explained clearly in my Gentle Introduction to ROS book, which just says you need to source setup.bash once in each terminal (which frankly isn't all that clear: you don't need to do it in your roscore terminal, for instance).
Comment by kosmastsk on 2018-12-13:
Apart from this, in order to source more workspaces in the same .bashrc file do not forget to add the --extend flag in the end. E.g. [ANOTHER PATH]/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash --extend
Comment by askkvn on 2019-05-08:
But question still remains open, Why do we need to source, what is the need of that file?
Comment by Metalzero2 on 2019-05-08:
@askkvn I found out that this is a question related to how Linux works then ROS. When ever you open a new shell (that is a new terminal window) it will look only is some specific parts of your whole file system for commands. In other words, if you write the command "cd" it will look in some pre-defined locations to find if that is an actual command. Now, if you want to add new commands to your shell you need to tell it where to find them. This is basically what the file devel/setup.bash. So, when you source this, the file will tell the shell where to find all the ROS executable (including the programs that you have compiled). That is basically the need for it, at least to my understanding. Hope it helps. :)
Comment by askkvn on 2019-05-09:
thanks for explanation, got it :)

