Q:

differences between SCARA arm design

I am currently interested in SCARA arm designs and I have few, beginner questions for which I didn't find answers yet. 
1/ While comparing professional arms (made by epson, staubli...) I noticed that the actuator used for the translation on the Z axis is at the end of the arm. On "hobby" arms like the makerarm project on kickstarter they use a leadscrew with the actuator at the beginning of the arm.
I thought it was smarter to put the actuator handling this DoF at the begining of the arm (because of its weight) and not at the end, but I assume that these companies have more experience than the company behind the makerarm. So I'm probably wrong, but I would like to understand why :)
2/ Also I would like to understand what kind of actuators are used in these arms. The flx.arm (also a kickstarter project) seems to be using stepper motors but they also say they are using closed loop control, so they added an encoder on the stepper motors right?
Wouldn't it be better to not use stepper and, for instance, use DC brushless motors or servos instead ?
3/ I also saw some of these arms using belts for the 2nd Z axis rotation, what is the advantage ? it only allows to put the actuator at the begining of the arm ?

A:

1) Yes, you are correct that moving the actuator closer to the joint increases the arm's capabilities. The reason that some arms do not use this configuration is to keep the robot simple. Adding gears, belts, screws, etc. increases complexity and mass, adds extra friction and backlash, and leads to more wear and tear. Another benefit is that it is much easier to estimate the torque/force at the end-effector/tool if there are fewer mechanisms in-between.
2) Stepper motors are popular because they have position feedback integrated into the motor. They precisely "step" through discrete movements and so you don't need an encoder. Using stepper motors works well for simple applications where the arm needs to follow trajectories while respecting torque limits on the joints. However, if you want to implement more sophisticated compliance and force control methods then DC motors will work much better.
3) The answer to this is the same as 1), and yes, it allows you to move the actuator closer to the joint.
A particularly interesting manipulator is the Barrett WAM arm, which has the first 4 DOF's actuated by motors in the base and using a low-friction cable system to transmit the motion. The optional wrist connector adds another 3 DOF's that were contained in the wrist itself. It is not a SCARA configuration, but still might be of interest to you.

