Q:

Quadrocopter first build: how to tell if components play well together?

I'm building my first quadrocopter, and I'm trying to come up with a parts list that is suitable for a first build. 
I will use this to learn how to fly a quadrocopter manually (lots of crashes!), and to do some experiments with running AI for piloting it.
A couple questions about the below list of parts:

Is this a good choice for a first build? Are we missing any crucial parts?
Do these components work together? Is this battery strong enough to fuel all the components that need power?

Here's the current list of parts:

Frame - 450 mm
Propellers - 10x4.5", two pairs
Motor (4x) - 900kv brushless outrunner motor; max current: 18A; ESC: 25-30A; cell count:3s-4s lipoly
Electronic speed controllers (4x) - 20A constant current, 25A burst current; battery: 2-4S lipoly
Battery - 3300mAh lipoly, 11.1v, 3 cell; constant discharge: 30C, peak discharge: 40C. charge plug: JST-XH. 3300 mAh x 30C = 99 amps?
Charger - lipoly, 50W, 6A, 12v power supply
Power supply - input: AC 100-240v 50/60Hz; output: DC15v 5A
Arduino board
Gyroscope for arduino
Accelerometer for arduino
GPS sensor for arduino?
RC transmitter for arduino
RC controller

A:

You part list is fine as this is your first build. However I would suggest you to use ready made flight controller instead of buying arduino and program it yourself. Once you are comfortable flying quad rotor, it will be easier for you to test your code and adjust controller gains which is a very crucial step to control quad rotor as per your requirement. There are good flight controller available for quad rotor such as Ardupilotmega or KKMulticopter.
Apart from this, you should add lipo alarm like this to your list which will monitor lipo voltage during flight and tell you when to land. Also you should have spare propellers as propeller are most likey to get damage when you crash. You should also consider propeller balancer like this to reduce vibration due to imbalanced propeller.

