Q:

Problem using the provided groovy RPi Image

Hi Everyone!
So I was going for a quick test using the image provided here: ros.org/wiki/groovy/Installation/Raspbian/Source (sorry, I'm new here and not allowed to post Hyperlinks). After I flashed it to an SDcard and booted I found that ROS does not seem to be present at all (echo $ROS_DISTRO returns nothing, the different ROS_ variables are not present). I also tried setting up my WiFi, with no success (Dongle visible in lsusb, but not in lsmod, nor in ifconfig). When I tried to use the wpa_gui from the X environment, the Pi did not respond to keyboard or mouse input anymore. All the devices mentioned before are connected using a powered USB-hub. As a matter of fact, the Pi itself is powered from that hub.
So now I am wondering: either I am doing strange mistakes at many places or the image provided does not work (the way I think it should - Maybe I misunderstood the introductory text and only the source should be present. But what sense would be in that?). Has anyone tested the functionality of the mentioned image and could give me a hint as to what it is?
Cheers

Originally posted by jmueller on ROS Answers with karma: 50 on 2013-05-28
Post score: 0

A:

The Raspi will not work will all WiFi dongles, check here for which have been tested. You may of blown the polyfuse if you drew too much current over 150 mA without external power.  Does it work without the WiFi?  I use that image that kalectro kindly provided and have no problems with WiFi or ROS. Source the catkin folders also since I believe most the packages are compiled from source.

Originally posted by tonybaltovski with karma: 2549 on 2013-05-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by jmueller on 2013-05-28:
The WiFi Dongle works with the Pi, I used it with the other image I mentioned above (that one did not have tf, among others, which I need to use). But I will have a look at the kalectro image, thanks for the hint!
Comment by tonybaltovski on 2013-05-28:
Here is the link to his original post on the Raspi forums http://www.raspberrypi.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=37&t=6552&p=354127

