Q:

How to Install ROS Kinetic Ubuntu 16.04

After trying to install ROS following the instructions here.
After finally entering this command:
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-desktop-full

I was presented with this error:
Reading package lists... Done

Building dependency tree

Reading state information... Done

Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable distribution that some required packages have not yet been created or been moved out of Incoming. The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:  ros-kinetic-desktop-full :

Depends: ros-kinetic-desktop but it is not going to be installed
 
Depends: ros-kinetic-perception but it is not going to be installed

Depends: ros-kinetic-simulators but it is not going to be installed E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

Originally posted by yodigi7 on ROS Answers with karma: 21 on 2016-09-16
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by jdmartin86 on 2016-12-19:
I'm having the same problem -- tried following Davide Faconti's solution, and it didn't help.
Comment by Qinsheng on 2017-09-23:
I have same problem and tried everythings but no luck!

A:

Hi Yodigi,
I had the same problem with the exact same three depends messages after upgrading to 16.04.
When you run

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade

do you get a message about packages being "held back"? I fixed my issue by  running

sudo apt-get install < packages-held-back >

which installs the packages and all of its dependencies. From what I've read, individually installing the packages is safer than running

sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

I also had an issue with openni not configuring but the following commands solved the issue

sudo apt-get remove libopenni0

sudo apt-get purge libopenni*

and finally, running

sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-desktop-full

ran successfully.

Originally posted by klindgren with karma: 56 on 2016-12-28
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by youssef desouky on 2020-07-15:
this worked for me sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
thankyou

