Q:

Resolving conflicts in PR

Hi:
I recently submitted a PR. However, there were some failing tests which I have addressed. I also find that there is now a conflict with the lunar-devel branch. I'm not sure what is the best way to proceed from here? I can add more commits to the PR which will fix the failing tests, but I don't know how to fix the conflict in the PR. Do I rebase my branch to the head of the lunar-devel branch? or is there some other recommended way?
Also, it seems that the lunar-devel branch has some failed tests and therefore the PR also has some failed tests. How can I resolve this?
I'd appreciate any pointers to this.
[edit1]
In particular, I'm refering to the ros_comm package and the Secure ROS PR: https://github.com/ros/ros_comm/pull/1080
Thanks,
Aravind.

Originally posted by Aravind on ROS Answers with karma: 53 on 2017-08-16
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by jayess on 2017-08-16:
What package/repository are you referring to? Also, this may be better answered in the repository that you're try to do a pull request in.
Comment by Aravind on 2017-08-16:
Thanks for the response. I've updated my original question. When you say, answered in the original repository, do you mean a comment on the PR or something else?
Comment by jayess on 2017-08-16:
Yes, there or maybe an issue.

A:

Even though you refer to branches with ROS release names in them, this is essentially a non-ROS question. To really understand what is going on, I would suggest you take a look at a git / github tutorial or two.
As to your question:

I can add more commits to the PR which will fix the failing tests, but I don't know how to fix the conflict in the PR. Do I rebase my branch to the head of the lunar-devel branch?

Rebasing is probably easiest, provided you have no history that you must preserve.

Also, it seems that the lunar-devel branch has some failed tests and therefore the PR also has some failed tests. How can I resolve this?

That is obviously not something we can answer here, as, as @jayess already noted, we don't know which "pull request" and which particular "lunar-devel branch" you are referring to.
In general though, failures that are not caused by your PR are typically not considered as blockers for a merge.
But this can, and will, differ between repositories, as it's up to the maintainers.
You'll have to ask them.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2017-08-16
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by Aravind on 2017-08-16:
I've updated my original post with the particulars. I meant it to be a more general question, and I think your answer is what I was looking for. Thanks!

