Q:

How to build a fast quadcopter?

I'm currently in a (risky) project that involves me building the fastest quad I can afford.
I'm trying to get something close to this extremely fast warpquad
After reading a lot about quadcopters, as I know I can buy all this and it should fit together and fly without any problem.
Motors: Multistar Elite 2306-2150KV
ESC: Afro Race Spec Mini 20Amp
Quanum neon 250 carbon racing frame(I love how it looks)
6Inch Props
CC3D flight controller
4S 1400mah 40-80C Battery
Any 6ch radio

My questions are:

Am I wrong or missing something? as I had only read about it (thinking this is a common build for racer quad).

Will this overheat (bad consequences) if I let it drain the full battery at 100% throttle?

Will this fly at least 4 minutes under the previous conditions?

Should I get a higher C-rating battery?

As I can't find better motors of that size, is the only way to improve its speed by putting a 6S battery? and what would happen if I do it?

Should I put the 6inch props or 4inch? I know 4inch should get faster rpm changes but will it be noticeable at these sizes?

And in general, any tips to make it faster will be welcome.

Thanks.

A:

There is a handy online Calculator I use to answer such questions. I tried with the data you provided (and had to lookup specs on your motors). I can offer the following insights, but I am only guessing about your model's all-up weight.
If we assume it is roughly 800g with 6x3 props:

max speed: ~66km/h 
additional payload: 934g (of course this will affect top speed)
mixed flight time: 3.9min

Everything seems within spec with this data (ie. nothing will burn up, overheat, or be over or under driven)
It probably won't fly at all with 4 inch props (no matter what pitch).
Your flight time is quite low, you might consider a larger battery.
The calculator I used is eCalc
I strongly recommend spending some time with a calculator like that and trying experiments by adjusting only 1 dimension at a time, say motors or battery or props to see what effect it will have on the model before settling on your particular setup. I think that choosing the best motors is always the hardest choice as there are a lot of variants. The calculator has a lot of predefined motor specs by brand/model so you can try different motors quickly. Not all brands are covered though so its good to have access to your motors actual specs if necessary.

