Q:

Rebuilding workspace after kinetic update?

Hi there. After the latest update I'm encountering various breakages and processes dying on startup. For example a Time is out of dual 32-bit range error. Should my workspace and ROS nodes etc be built after a large update like this?

Originally posted by NotABot on ROS Answers with karma: 41 on 2018-09-11
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by ahendrix on 2018-09-11:
Probably. It would help to know if you're just upgrading packages within Kinetic, or upgrading from an older version of ROS (Indigo, Jade, etc) to Kinetic.
Comment by NotABot on 2018-09-11:
From an older version of Kinetic. Is it possible to roll back to previous versions of the packages? Or reinstall without that update?
Comment by lstelzner on 2018-09-11:
We've also been having issues with a kinetic build that seems to have been released approx 4 days ago. We build all our ros into docker containers, I have a docker from 5 days ago that launches our stack fine, the one from 4 days ago fails. Half of the nodes die on launch without any useful logs.

A:

There was a release of package updates for Kinetic a few days ago: https://discourse.ros.org/t/new-packages-for-kinetic-2018-09-06/5983 . It looks like that included releases of lots of packages.
It sounds like you're seeing either an ABI compatibility issue, or a bug introduced by one of the changes in one of the packages that was updated. In general ROS strives to maintain backward compatibility with these updates so that you don't need to recompile when you update packages, but sometimes the packages maintainers make mistakes, or it's just not possible.
If this is an ABI compatibility issue or a new bug, it should be reported upstream immediately so that the maintainers can decide how best to handle it. If you're not sure which package or stack to report this issue on, I suggest you update your question with the exact error message that you're seeing, or ask a new question that includes the exact error message.

Originally posted by ahendrix with karma: 47576 on 2018-09-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2018-09-12:
This was most likely an ABI breakage: we've had several workspaces 'break' after the latest sync. All of those fixed by updating all ROS pkgs (not just a few of the outstanding updates) and then rebuilding the workspace.
Rebuilding after a apt update is always recommended.

