Q:

Kinect V2 on Jackal by Clearpath

Hi all,
I'm new to ROS and have gone through the basic tutorials. I'm trying to get the kinect V2 connected with the Jackal and setting up simulations with Gazebo, rviz and stage.  The jackal packages that I downloaded has the SICK laser range already set up but I want to replace it with the Kinect V2. From what I have gathered from reading online is that I need to modify the jackal_description urdf. Can anyone help me and tell me what exactly I need to do to get to edit the urdf and simulated kinect data, so that I can progress towards mapping a room?
Thanks!

Originally posted by richardsondynamics on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2016-01-28
Post score: 1

A:

There is a tutorial on customizing the Jackal's URDF.  You could use a kinect from the description example from the husky.  This will be a Kinect V1 but gazebo treats both as a RGBD sensor.

Originally posted by tonybaltovski with karma: 2549 on 2016-01-29
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by luispineda on 2016-01-30:
@tonybaltovski Thank you for your reply, When I tried to run rviz (roslauch jackal_viz view_robot.launch) I the an error "roslaunch: command not found" do you know why is this happening?
Comment by tonybaltovski on 2016-01-30:
Did you setup your environment?  source /opt/ros/indigo/setup.bash or if it is a workspace: source PATH_TO_WS/devel/setup.bash
Comment by M@tt on 2016-02-22:
Is there anything else you have to do besides modify the URDF? I'm also trying to connect a Kinect to a Jackal. I assume you also need to install the clearpathrobotics/iai_kinect2 package. And I assume that you need to modify the launch files as well?
Comment by asabet on 2018-07-21:
I'm also trying to integrate the kinect xacros from the husky into the jackal, but I can't get the sensor to show up in rviz, or publish, even though everything 'looks right' and the description is compiled without errors. What should I do in this case?
Comment by spiritninja on 2019-06-20:
the command is roslaunch unlike the mistake on the clearpath webpage roslauch.

