Q:

TurtleBot3 - Output from HDMI stopped working

I am working with the TurtleBot 3. The issues I am having are outlined in the following points:
Out of the box, the Intel Joule displayed correctly to a monitor.
I wanted to install Ubuntu Core on the Joule, so a BIOS update was required. To do this, I followed the instructions on https://software.intel.com/en-us/flashing-the-bios-on-joule.
Once the BIOS was flashed into the Joule, the Joule no longer displayed on the monitor (or other monitors I tried). I tried connecting the cable in different orders but it had no effect.
I reflashed the BIOS onto the Joule, with the addition of the -clear option, using the following command: Flash.bat -clear Joule_C0-X64-Release-1J2-Public_DNX.bin (suggested in https://intel-openport-v7.hosted.jivesoftware.com/thread/118328)
The Joule then connected correctly to the monitor and I was able to install Ubuntu correctly. (A second Joule I was working with experienced the same display issue; however, the above solution did not resolve it.)
This worked for a time and I was able to control the TurtleBot3 using the android app, but the Joule returned to the state where it doesn’t output from the HDMI.
I have attempted to reflash the BIOS as above, but it had no effect.
The Joule still responds when pinged as it did before the display issue rearose.
How can I resolve this issue to allow the Joule to output correctly to the monitor? Is it possible to restore the Joule to its factory settings?

Originally posted by decod on ROS Answers with karma: 31 on 2017-10-11
Post score: 0

A:

It is recommended to use firmware 193 for Ubuntu.
You might need to reflash your Joule with 193 instead of 1J2.
https://communities.intel.com/thread/116929

Originally posted by Will Son with karma: 66 on 2017-10-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by decod on 2017-10-12:
Thank you for the response. Do you know where I can download BIOS version 193? I can't seem to find older versions of the BIOS.
Comment by Will Son on 2017-10-12:
You can get it from Turtlebot3 Wiki.
http://turtlebot3.robotis.com/en/latest/sbc_software.html#install-linux-on-turtlebot3-waffle-intel-joule

