Q:

ROS on Ubuntu Communicating with Win_ROS

Hi All,
I am currently working on a robot that runs Windows 7. The control program is done using DirectX SDK 9.0 and Visual Studio 2008 Express. I am planing on using ROS for navigation. Now, the problem is communicating between the robot (Windows 7) and a workstation running Ubuntu 12.04 and ROS fuerte.
To get started, I was trying to get a publisher node on my Windows machine to publish to a Topic on my Ubuntu machine. I followed these instruction:

• Installation 

Download the latest ROSWIN32 installation executable  here or do a
svn checkout of the sources from
here. 
Run the executable and complete the installation. Running the example
"babbler"  • Setting up your Linux
machine. 
We will first need to set ROS_IP. Open a terminal and enter the
following command.  export ROS_IP=mylinuxipaddress  Where
mylinuxipaddress is the IP address of
your linux machine. 
Now we will fire up the ros master. In the same terminal enter the
following command.  roscore  Remember
the ROS_MASTER_URI after the master
has been launched successfully. You
will require this in the later steps. 
Note: in order to avoid exporting ROS_IP every time you open a new
terminal, you can edit the environment
variable permanently by editing its
value in the ros/setup.sh file. 
• Setting up your Windows machine. 
Copy the REC GmbH/ROSWIN32/examples folder from your installation
directory to a location where you have
write access (your Desktop for
instance.) 
Create a build_babbler folder. 
Start CMake and set the source directory to examples/babbler. Set the
build directory to build_babbler. 
Press Configure and select the compiler "Visual Studio 9 2008". After
the configuration is complete, press
Configure once again. And then
finally, press Generate. 
After successfully generating your visual studio project, navigate to the
build_babbler directory and open
babbler.sln with Visual Studio 2008. 
You will now need to set the ROS_MASTER_URI and ROS_IP for windows
and this can be done by changing the
following two lines in the babbler.cpp
file. The ROS_MASTER_URI can be set by
modifying the following line to the
value we noted on the linux machine.
 ros::master::setURI("value obtained in the first section");
The ROS_IP can be set by modifying the
following line to include the IP
address of yourwindows machine.
 ros::network::setHost("xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx") ;
Once the changes have been made, right click on babbler in the Solution
Explorer window and click build.
babbler should build without any
errors. 
Make sure the master we started on the linux machine is still running. 
Now, run babbler.exe from the build_babbler/Debug directory. A
babbler node will be initialized and
will start publishing string data on
the topic /babble 
The other examples can be run in a similar way as babbler. 

 I can see the publisher node publishing on Win_ROS, but the Topic on my Ubuntu machine is not receiving it (checked using rxgraph). I have both machines on a local network.
Any ideas on how to troubleshoot this issue? Any help on communication in this way is appreciated.

Originally posted by Merdad on ROS Answers with karma: 40 on 2012-12-14
Post score: 0

A:

Guys, I resolved my problem by disabling Windows Firewall and using automatic IP assignment by the switch.

Originally posted by Merdad with karma: 40 on 2012-12-14
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

