Q:

Detecting the presence of a person in a room

I am working on my first hobby project and I'm not very familiar with sensors yet. I am trying to build a system which detects the presence of a person in a small room with a single entrance/exit door.
The idea is when the first person enters the room, the lights turn on and any following person doesn't affect state of the lights. After the last person leaves, the lights should turn off. In a programmatic sense, the lights should turn on when present person count is greater than 0.
I have explored my options and found out that infrared sensors are usually used for this type of problem. What I am not sure is how to detect whether person has entered or left, so I would like to ask for some help with this.

A:

I think that most instances of a project like this use a motion sensor to detect if people are in the room rather than trying to count the number of people in the room as that would require knowing if someone was entering or leaving the room. The problem with a motion sensor to drive the lights that a person who enters and then becomes still (at a computer, TV, asleep, etc.) can cause the motion sensor to fail to detect a person in the room, causing the lights to turn off. 
You could try to count people in the room, but, as mentioned, this requires knowing not just that someone passed the threshold but also knowing the direction they were going. This could be done with a really simple light curtain on either side of the door and then watching to see which sensor triggers first. 
The light curtain doesn't need to be complicated; you can use one IR transmitter and one IR photocell for each "curtain". When the received intensity drops below some threshold you trigger an event. Outside then inside is someone entering and vice versa is someone leaving. 
You can also use pressure mat, where again you put one inside and one outside. 
Don't forget to take the door into account! If you use IR light curtain you'll have to set up one sensor unit far enough away that the door won't trigger (and thus block) the sensor. 

