Q:

Seeking dirt cheap, wheeled, programmable robot

I was playing the old "confuse the cat with a flash-light" game, when I thought that I might like to program a confuse-a-cat robot.
Something, probably with tracks, which can right itself if he flips it over, and which I can program to move randomly around a room, turning at walls, making an occasional sound or flashing a light.
Since I am on a very tight budget, I wondered if there is some cheap kit which I can program ...
Arduino, Raspberry Pi, any platform, so long as it is programmable.
Thanks in advance for your help

A:

Did you say dirt?  May I recommend a Roomba?

It has wheels and tracks.
A cat wouldn't be able to flip it over.
It already knows how to move randomly around a room, turning at walls.
It already makes sounds and has some LEDs.  You should be able to hack how they behave.

Some cats like Roombas.  Others are highly indifferent to them.
Bonus: it can pick up cat hair.

A:

You haven't define what's the limit of your budget.
However, for cheap programmable robots you can use: the DFRobot 2WD Mobile Platform and interface it with an Arduino Uno. You can also use a Pololu 3pi Robot or even a PICAXE Microbot which is already equiped with a front bumper
Look a this for more kits: 47 Programmable Robotic Kits

A:

Dirty cheap robot:
Try seeking in Aliexpress/Ebay/your local e-store something called 2WD robot chassis. 
For about ~14-16 usd you will get two wheels and two engines and quite good basic platform for further development. 
Then you will have to add:

Arduino or clone (cheaper) ~8-9 usd
Driver shield or H-bridge (H bridge or transistors are much cheaper but you will have to learn how to use them. It's not wasted time if you want to pursue robotics hobby) ~6-7usd for cheapest
Ultrasonic sensor 2 usd
6x battery holder 1 usd
Breadboard and dupont cables (jumpers) 6 usd

You will get complete kit for ~40 usd total. If you will add about 20 usd for arduino kit that will be more than enough to start. 
Start here and search for suitable elements
http://www.aliexpress.com/wholesale?SearchText=arduino&catId=&initiative_id=SB_20140925122631

