Q:

Control VS artificial intelligence?

I have heard of both the terms AI (artificial intelligence) based robots and control based robots.
Although they are both different fields, what is the difference between AI and control in regards to application (since both are doing same task of automation)?

A:

In robotics, it all boils down to making the hardware(in essence, the actuator) perform the desired action. The basics of control systems tell us that the transfer function decides the relationship between the output and the input given the plant, i.e. system reacts to the latter.
While purely control-based robots use the system model to define their input-output relations, AI-based robots may or may not use the system model and rather manipulate the robot based on the experience they have with the system while training or possibly enhance it in real-time as well. Eventually, both of them can do the same task.
The difference in terms of applicability is the deterministic behavior of pure conventional control techniques. AI robots have a certain element of stochastic behavior given that they have learned things and learnings can be poor based on a lot of intrinsic and extrinsic factors. AI methods are converging towards high probabilistic success, but not quite there for critical applications.
Also, AI has scope for more inclusiveness of other perception and hardware layers than conventional control that needs everything to be hand-crafted. 

A:

I think, it is easier to explain these areas in terms of guidance, navigation and control layers for an autonomous robot. Let's stay an autonomous robot is commanded to reach a desired goal position from where it is.
Guidance (what to do): this layers computes a motion plan (a sequence of positions) that starts from the current position of the robot and reaches the desired goal position. 
Navigation (where am I): this layer computes an estimate of the robot's state (x,y, heading, speed, etc). 
Control (how to do): this layer computes the actuation commands in order to follow the generated path (computed by the guidance layer) based on the estimated state (computed by the navigation layer).
Arguably, AI is heavily used at the guidance layer whereas classical control algorithms (such as LQR, PID) are used in the control layer. Each layer works at different frequency! Again, arguably, engineers tend to use simpler algorithms at the lower layers since they need to execute at higher rates. Also, it is easier to prove closed-loop system stability and performance for simpler control algorithms. 
Guidance layer: graph-search algorithms, A*, Dijkstra, MDPs (more AI is used here)
Navigation layer: filtering algorithms, Kalman Filter, EKF, Unscented KF, particle filter, etc.
Control layer: linear control algorithms (PID, LQR), optimal control (MPC), adaptive control (more classical control theory is used here)

