Q:

How to start contributing, I have developed many libraries

I have developed my own Robot Operating System for raspberry pi, interfaced with an arduino controller, and have achieved full motion video at 30 fps.
I have source code for all sensors, smoke( mq2 ), temperature, robotic arm, distance, motors ( up to 30 amp )-- arduino
I have source code for serial interface, message queues, socket interfaces to android -- linux
I have source code for android interface to linux
I use UV4L for raspberry pi for video interface for android, and an extremely modified version of the open source simplemjpegviewer for android.
This was all part of a startup that just became non cost effective that has recently been dissolved.
My background c/c++ linux/windows programmer for 20+ years, android 4 yrs now.
I would like to contribute some of my work to your project
Please let me know what to do
some videos https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HFvNOiNvUGU, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V31k7JzjMCI.
Frank Mancini

Edit: I have linux c code, arduino scratch code for the sensors, and android ( java ) source code.
It might be best to use them as a starting point for other programmers to implement their own solutions, or their own additions to ROS.
Probably the best use would be generic open source libraries, and even a tutorial to use UV4L.
The serial interface can be seperated out.
I have code to generate a mime formatted email with attachments.
This whole system is written in C using linux, jessie debian, developed on UBUNTU.
All of the C code is portable to any POSIX system.

Originally posted by frankmancininb on ROS Answers with karma: 21 on 2016-12-07
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2016-12-07:
This could be interesting, but could you give us an idea of how you'd like to see your libraries used? In ROS nodes, as more generic open-source libraries, is everything Arduino only or portable to other systems, etc?

A:

A first step would be to open source the code from the project somewhere (github, bitbucket, any other git hoster?).
Then you could send a mail e.g. to the ros-users list and tell people to have a look at it.
Without open source, there's not much to contribute to an open source project. :)
Especially when you are unsure about where the ROS community could benefit from it.
This sounds interesting.

Originally posted by v4hn with karma: 2950 on 2016-12-08
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by frankmancininb on 2016-12-08:
Where do I find the ros users list?  My system was meant to run headless, and only on the pi or other compatible linux board.  I also have lots of code for arduino sensors, servos and motor shields.
The system is speedy on the pi, i achieved 30 fps 320x240 mjpeg streaming with great motor response.
Comment by v4hn on 2016-12-08:
Sorry to confuse you with the name. "ros-users" was a mailinglist that recently became part of https://discourse.ros.org/ .
So best to post it there (with a link to your code, that is).

