Q:

State Estimation and Localization in Robot Navigation

Hello,
I would like to ask the difference between a state estimator like robot_localization, or robot_pose_ekf and a localization package like amcl.
Can we say, a state estimator estimating  (x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw, and their respective velocities) is more general
than a localization module which only estimates (x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw)
Other than the fact that,  robot_localization, or robot_pose_ekf are fusing odometry data from different sensors and amcl is using this data plus laser/camera data to localize the robot, and (x, y, z) in state estimators are relative to the initial position and global (relative to the map) in amcl
Thanks

Originally posted by ROSCMBOT on ROS Answers with karma: 651 on 2014-09-04
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by Martin Peris on 2014-09-04:
I guess that the main difference would be a state estimator provides localization of the robot on a frame local to the robot (the origin of the odometry frame will depend on where the robot woke up) and a localization package such as amcl provides localization on a global frame.

A:

I've always considered localization to be a special case of state estimation, but the state being estimated is the robot's pose and velocity.
As far as how each can be used, it's really up to you. Both robot_localization and robot_pose_ekf can fuse global position information, such as from a GPS or by using landmarks (providing you have a node that can generate a position estimate based on landmarks). They can also both fuse odometry data as estimated from a LIDAR, but again, you'd need a node that performs something like ICP on point cloud data and generates an odometry message. The main differences between the packages are that robot_localization can take in an arbitrary number of input sources and that it can integrate velocity data. The added flexibility does result in some extra legwork to set it up, however.
I should also point out that while robot_localization currently contains only one state estimation node (ekf_localization_node), the goal of the package is to eventually provide multiple state estimation nodes that vary in their approach (unscented Kalman filters, particle filters, graph-base techniques, etc.)
I am less familiar with amcl, but reading the wiki page, it looks likes it's using LIDAR to localize the robot in 2D against a map that is known a priori (someone correct me if this is wrong).

Originally posted by Tom Moore with karma: 13689 on 2014-09-05
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 3

Original comments
Comment by ROSCMBOT on 2014-09-05:
Thanks. regarding amcl, as I know it uses LIDAR data and odometry data published by robot_pose_ekf or robot_localization on /odom_combined to localize the robot on a given map.

