Q:

How do I get started making RQT plugins?

Hey,
So I'm fairly new at ROS, QT and RQT, and I'm trying to figure out how everything "fits together."
I've looked at the guide for making RQT plugins yourself, but I'm still having some trouble figuring out how to actually set everything up.
Once I have a QT widget made, say with a couple of buttons and a text label, how do I actually add ROS functions to those? I thought I'd just add the ROS-related code to my QT project, but it keeps telling me it can't find the ros/ros.h header file that it needs when I try to build, and I can't find that file anywhere on my ros install.
Do I need my entire QT project to be in a catkin workspace, maybe? And how am I supposed to build it--using QT's built in "build" button, or through the catkin build commands?
So what I'm really looking for is some guide to get me from the start (e.g. no code) to maybe some hello world RQT widget; I just need to understand how I'm supposed to structure everything/ make everything fit together.
My setup: I need to work in C++ because some libraries I'm going to end up needing aren't available for python; I also want to "hard code" my QT widget (so not using a .ui file) because I need to populate some menus and drop downs while the program is running, which is hard to do when a .ui file is involved; I'm on ROS Indigo (can't use Hydro on Ubuntu 14.04)
Thanks a lot for any input you may have. :)

Originally posted by leon2014 on ROS Answers with karma: 1 on 2014-07-06
Post score: 0

A:

Once I have a QT widget made, say with a couple of buttons and a text label, how do I actually add ROS functions to those? I thought I'd just add the ROS-related code to my QT project

Your right. You just have to add "interface" between your Qt widgets and rqt plugin framework. For rqt plugin in C++, only the class that extends rqt_gui_cpp::Plugin is rqt specific. So create it, and use your custom Qt classes from there.

but it keeps telling me it can't find the ros/ros.h header file that it needs when I try to build, and I can't find that file anywhere on my ros install.

Please provide more info; e.g. command you ran and its full (or sufficient amount of ) output.
There may be only a handful of plugins written in C++. One good example is rqt_image_view. See its code as a reference (note that this plugin, however, is written all-in-one style of Plugin class and Qt widget).

Originally posted by 130s with karma: 10937 on 2014-07-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

