Q:

[roscore] Following the tutorials ... unexpected output?

Hi guys,
Following the Tutorial #6.- "Understanding Topics Basics", at the first step (1.1.1.- roscore), quoting:
Let's start by making sure that we have roscore running, in a new terminal:
$ roscore
If you left roscore running from the last tutorial, you may get the error message:
roscore cannot run as another roscore/master is already running. 
Please kill other roscore/master processes before relaunching

However, if I let one "roscore" process running, and launch a new one in a different terminal Window, I get the following error:
ERROR: Unable to start XML-RPC server, port 11311 is already in use
Unhandled exception in thread started by <bound method XmlRpcNode.run of <rosgraph.xmlrpc.XmlRpcNode object at 0x8cd3e2c>>

And after the stacktrace:
socket.error: [Errno 98] Address already in use
ERROR: could not contact master [http://pfc-VirtualBox:11311/]
[master] killing on exit

So, my question is: Is this a kind of "bug" in the tutorial or may I worry about that error being threw instead of the suggested output @ tutorial?
Thanks in advance for your answer!

Originally posted by 1morelearner on ROS Answers with karma: 57 on 2012-07-13
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by LittleFishLove on 2018-02-02:
Hi, bro I met the same problem with you , I want to know if the problem has been solved ? If solved, can you give me some help? Thank you very much!
Comment by ahendrix on 2018-02-02:
This problem was solved; see the answer below. If that solution doesn't work for you, you should ask a new question. Asking other users to contact you directly is against the community spirit of the forum, so I've removed your email address from your comment.

A:

Almost certainly a bug in the tutorial. In general, you can't have more than one roscore running; a good rule of thumb is to fire one up, minimize that window, and forget about it.

Originally posted by Mac with karma: 4119 on 2012-07-13
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

