Q:

catkin_ws reset

Hello, I am kind of new to the whole ROS environment and I would appreciate if anyone could help me out with what seems of a simple task.
I have been playing around making many different packages and downloading them as well wanting to learn how everything worked. I have done also several workspaces other than catkin_ws. Anyways, I kind of understand how to do things in an ordered way now but it is such a disorder that I want to erase all and start over with a simple catkin_ws with the core packages.
I'm looking for someone that can tell me the steps on how to erase all the junk and make a single catkin_ws with just the core packages.
Thank you in advance.

Originally posted by abeckd on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2019-06-06
Post score: 0

A:

Removing a Catkin workspace completely is simple: just rm -rf the workspace directory (not the src, devel or build space, but the root of the workspace).
There's nothing more to.
If you've added a source /path/to/your/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash to your $HOME/.bashrc, you'll want to remove that for the workspaces you've deleted as well, otherwise you'll get errors whenever you open a new shell.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2019-06-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-06-06:
Probably redundant, but: if you rm -rf a workspace, you cannot undo that. You're physically removing the files from your disk.
Comment by abeckd on 2019-06-06:
Thank you for the answer, I was afraid I wouldn't be able to get my default packages for turtlebot3 back but I found both git clones I needed. Basically I just rm -rf all workspaces, then created a new ~/catkin_ws/src cloned both git in and then catkin_make
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-06-06:
Do you actually need to build the TB3 packages in a Catkin workspace?
According to wiki/turtlebot3 they've been released into both Kinetic and Melodic and should be installable with a simple sudo apt install ros-kinetic-turtlebot3.

