Q:

pynaoqi-python2.7-naoqi

hello, i am studying mechatronic/robotics and I have to include Nao in Linux Ubuntu 10.04 fuerte 32bit. The napqi on Nap does not work because Nao is very old. He works with NaoQiAcademics-1.2.0-Linux. I think I need the pynaoqi-python2.7-naoqi that I can work with Nao in ROS fuerte? But I cannot actually download this from aldebaran site because they offert only new versions of naoqi. Can someone of you sent me a link for downloading this pynaoqi? thanks a lot for help.

Originally posted by Tajana on ROS Answers with karma: 11 on 2014-05-20
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Vincent Rabaud on 2014-05-23:
what version of the robot do you have ? Aldebaran does not support such an old NAOqi anymore. You can't upgrade to 1.14 ?
Comment by Tajana on 2014-05-26:
I do not know what version. I have allready talked to aldebaran and they had told me that it is not possible to upgrade my Nao because of his age.
But I hopped that someone who also worked with older ones can give me a pynaoqi
for an old version of Nao.

A:

Hi,
With a bit of archaeology, I checked how it was done in NAOqi 1.2.
In your SDK, or on your robot, you should find a path similar to: extern/python/aldebaran/
In there you'll find naoqi.py, inaoqi.py and _inaoqi.so
If I remember correctly you need to add the path to naoqi.py to your environment.
If you can't find these, please contact us via Vincent ( above ) and we can get this to you.
If all else fails, you can use urls similar to http://ROBOT:9559/?eval=MODULENAME.METHODNAME(args like python)
Hope this helps,
Chris

Originally posted by ChrisKilner with karma: 16 on 2014-05-27
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Tajana on 2014-06-02:
Thanks a lot for your help. I could found this naoqi.py on my Nao but theres the next Problem. How can I set this path of naoqi.py to my Environment? root@nao /opt/naoqi/extern/python/Aldebaran ---> inside of this ther is naoqi.py i work in ubuntu@ubuntu. And I cant find this when I am working there.
Tajana

