Q:

Do marker namespaces and ids actually do anything?

I am having trouble understanding the purpose of namespaces and ids as applied to markers. I am specifically referring to some of the info provided on this wiki page.
It says that if a marker has the same namespace and id as an existing marker, then it will clear the existing marker. I have not found this to be the case. In fact, I had been setting all of my markers to the same namespace and id without any problem.
Additionally, I don't understand how this behavior could even be achieved. A publisher can only publish a single topic and hence can only publish a single marker. Isn't the topic name the true unique identifier for markers?
The reason I am asking is because I am writing a class that "manages" a bunch of markers.

Originally posted by Sebastian on ROS Answers with karma: 363 on 2015-08-10
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by NEngelhard on 2015-08-10:
" A publisher can only publish a single topic and hence can only publish a single marker." No. The publisher can first publish a marker with id 0 and then a marker with id 1 on the same topic. How have you published your markers with the same namespace and id?
Comment by Sebastian on 2015-08-10:
I published them with different publishers.
I have my marker topic latched, maybe that is the problem...?
Comment by NEngelhard on 2015-08-10:
The namespace/id-combination only has to be unique within a single topic. Otherwise someone else could overwrite your markers to easy. So if you send two markers on different topics, they will never interfere.

A:

I'm not sure what the details of your use-case are, but here are a few points to consider:

Depending on the subscriber queue size and the rate at which you publish, publishing single Markers can either work well (if you don't overwhelm the subscriber queue) or not well (when you overwhelm the subscriber queue). In the latter case, messages get lost and not processed on the subscriber side.
If you set Marker to have the same
namespace and id as a previous one,
the previous one should indeed
disappear (as it gets overwritten by
the new one if the action is set to
"add/modify", which is the default).
If you publish multiple markers it is
recommended to use a MarkerArray
publisher, as this allows publishing
an array of Markers. This avoids the
problem with potentially
unpredictable behavior mentioned in
the first bullet.
I'd recommend getting rid of the
latching for your publishers you
mentioned, at least for testing. If
you have multiple latched publishers
in a node (or multiple nodes latching
the same topic), the behavior can be
counterintuitive.

Originally posted by Stefan Kohlbrecher with karma: 24361 on 2015-08-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

