Q:

ROS Answers SE migration: polling rates

I have problem in this concept "polling rates", and I only knew it determines how fast the outside ROS loop runs. But I still can't understand it. Who can tell me something specific or give me a example? This is the document where I met this concept https://github.com/hbrobotics/ros_arduino_bridge#configuring-the-ros_arduino_python-node.And the you can find the "polling rates" easily in it.

Polling Rates
The main rate parameter (50 Hz by
default) determines how fast the
outside ROS loop runs. The default
should suffice in most cases. In any
event, it should be at least as fast
as your fastest sensor rate (defined
below).
The sensorstate_rate determines how
often to publish an aggregated list of
all sensor readings. Each sensor also
publishes on its own topic and rate.
The use_base_controller parameter is
set to False by default. Set it to
True to use base control (assuming you
have the required hardware.) You will
also have to set the PID paramters
that follow.
The base_controller_rate determines
how often to publish odometry
readings.

Originally posted by Fighting_bird on ROS Answers with karma: 72 on 2016-05-08
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by mgruhler on 2016-05-09:
Can you be more specific? What are you talking about exactly?  When googling for "ROS polling rate", the only hits are something with specific hardware, e.g. an Arduino board. Please link to something documented (wiki, github), where you are unsure. (and please edit your question)
Comment by Fighting_bird on 2016-05-13:
Very sorry! I will edit my question at once.
Comment by mgruhler on 2016-05-17:
@struggling_bird please don't post any screenshots, as they are not searchable and the question will not make sense anymore, if the image ever disappears. You can easily copy-paste this code and format it properly using one of the preformatted text buttons...
Comment by Fighting_bird on 2016-05-19:
@mig Thank for your reminding all the same, even though I didn't post any screenshots. And I will keep in mind it to avoid making this mistake.

A:

This is actually not really a ROS concept. At least, in the ROS world, you usually don't talk about "polling". The concept in ROS is actually called spinning.
In this specific case, this means how often you publish respective messages (sensor and odometry), as written in the docu.
The rate parameter specifies, how often the main loop here is actually running. This main loop is polling the sensor and odometry data and publishing it.

Originally posted by mgruhler with karma: 12390 on 2016-05-17
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Fighting_bird on 2016-05-19:
I've got it! Thank you very much.

