Q:

Install Ros Indigo without downloading it everytime via terminal

Simply said, I have to install ROS Indigo on different computers, multiple times. 
My plan was to install ROS on a computer, once, following this tutorial "http://wiki.ros.org/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu"
and then transfer(?) the files to another computer and compile them.
Reason for doing this is I don't have unlimited internet nor great download speeds and neither a stable connection.
So, is there a way to transfer Ros from one computer to another, offline?

Originally posted by Battu007 on ROS Answers with karma: 3 on 2019-02-26
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-02-26:\

[..] then transfer(?) the files to another computer and compile them.

"compile them"? The installation guide you link to installs binaries from .debs. Nothing gets compiled.
Can you clarify?
Comment by Battu007 on 2019-02-26:
Fairly new here so I don't know how binaries work. "Compile them", basically meant install them. Through binaries, could I perform an offline installation after downloading them?
Comment by l4ncelot on 2019-02-26:
@Battu007 why don't you just automate the whole process by writing simple bash script?
Comment by Battu007 on 2019-02-26:
A bash script will just automate the process of "downloading" ros each time, which is something I don't want to do. What i'm looking for is to transfer ros from one computer to another, offline (if that is possible).
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2019-02-26:
See also #q296864 btw, of which your question is essentially a duplicate.
Comment by Battu007 on 2019-02-26:
Right, that should work for me. Thanks for helping out

A:

Through binaries, could I perform an offline installation after downloading them?

this is indeed what you'd want to do.
Copying individual files / directories is not going to be either scalable or maintainable.
The keywords here are: "download deb packages for off-line computer" or similar.
Example results: How can I install software or packages without Internet (offline)?.
This is not ROS specific, but an approach that works for any .deb based software distribution (please also note that I'm not endorsing or recommending any of the tools that are mentioned in the linked AskUbuntu Q&A).
An alternative could be to create an actual apt mirror on one of your machines that does have internet. If you have a network setup between your PCs, you could use the local mirror as an apt source which would allow your other computers to install the same packages without downloading them from packages.ros.org again.

Edit: a proper solution would apparently be to use apt-offline for this. I've never used that myself though, so I can't comment on its usability.

Originally posted by gvdhoorn with karma: 86574 on 2019-02-26
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

