Q:

Robot never goes straight

I am using 2 identical DC motors and a castor wheel. The motors are connected to L293D motor driver and are controlled by RPi. 
The robot is not going straight. It veers off to the right. I am running both the motors at 100% PWM.
What I tried to correct the error:

I adjusted the PWM of the wheel going faster to 99%, but the robot just turns to the other side; 
I adjusted the weight on the robot and the problem still persists.

I once tried to run the motor without any load. Is that the cause of this, as I was later told that, running a DC motor without any load damages them?
If that is not the cause, then please tell me how to solve this problem without using any sensors for controlling it. 

A:

I'm posting this as an answer because it is the answer. 
You can't. 
As @BendingUnit22 mentions, you are attempting "open loop" control. Noise and variations will mean that your robot will never drive a perfectly straight line. 
The motors could have different winding resistances (different drive currents/torque), the wheels could be different sizes, the wheels could have different traction characteristics, the caster bearing could be "stiff", the caster might not be perfectly straight when the vehicle starts, the floor might have varying surface friction characteristics (read: dust or carpet) - the list goes on and on. 
The only way to account for the things outside your control (what I mention above + more) is to use feedback sensors.
You can try to get better open-loop performance by correcting the problems I listed, but there are even more and you simply can't control everything. 

A:

Since the open-closed loop issue is already mentioned, I will give a comment to the "I once tried to run a dc-motor without a load". 
Yes you might damage your motor with this but you can also damage or destroy your motor with a load. The destruction is coming from the current and the resulting temperature. If there is no smoke and some obvious smell coming from the motor it is most likely not damaged. From my experience I can tell that hobby-scale dc-motors will start to degrade at temperatures way over 100°C. And you will definetly notice such temperatures 
EDIT:

I did think about this again and I might got an idea which your collegue might have been talking about. There are a special kind of AC-Motor. These are non-excited synchronous motors. Basically they are build for self destruction. If you power them up, they will start accelerating until they disassemble themselves. But if you place a heavy load on them, they can't reach this state, just because of the huge moment they have to apply to the load. So you can use them for reasonable purposes. Anyway you definetly do not of a motor like this in your application.

