Q:

Catkin install destination

I'm trying to figure out where my files should be installed by the Cmake install() macro (ROS melodic on Ubuntu 18.04). I found this list of catkin environment variables which are relative to the CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX. But how can I actually find the path of the install destinations to check if my files were successfully installed? I tried echo $CATKIN_GLOBAL_INCLUDE_DESTINATION or echo $CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX which both output an empty line.
I'm also wondering why I never had an install folder in my workspace yet. Should I change my CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX path when using ROS? I never read anything about this before. Some packages are even missing the install macro completely and work fine anyway.

Originally posted by prex on ROS Answers with karma: 151 on 2020-01-19
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by knxa on 2020-01-19:
Running catkin_make install should create an install folder in your workspace. If our packages contain install directives.
A good explanation can be found here:
https://wiki.ros.org/catkin/Tutorials/using_a_workspace#Installing_Packages
Comment by gvdhoorn on 2020-01-19:
For which variables you should use, and how, you'll want to take a look at the catkin 0.7.20 documentation » How to do common tasks » Package format 2 (recommended). Specifically the Building and installing targets section.
There are conventions for where files should end up and they are documented in those articles.
Comment by prex on 2020-01-19:
Do I also need to source the install space?
Comment by Dirk Thomas on 2020-01-21:\

Do I also need to source the install space?

Yes.

A:

I realized that I needed to set catkin config --install for the catkin_tools first, so that the install folder is created (already with the correct prefix path). Together with the two links above, this explains why I never found these files.
But packages also run fine from the devel space. In this case they can for example include header files from source space, which confused me a little bit at the beginning, because they were not present in devel.
I am still happy to hear how to check the path of these environment variables.

Originally posted by prex with karma: 151 on 2020-01-19
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 1

Original comments
Comment by Dirk Thomas on 2020-01-21:
The variables you mentioned (e.g. CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX) are CMake variables - not environment variables in your shell. They are simply not available after the build has finished. The install prefix is by default the install subdirectory of your workspace.

