Q:

Realsense depth calibration

Hey All,
I am using a Realsense F200 with the realsense_camera package for 3D mapping. The camera doesn't provide registered depth images, which everything seems to need. I looked at the depth_image_proc package but it requires rectified depth and rgb images as well as the calibration data. I should be able to calibrate the rgb camera with the camera_calibration package, but how do I calibrate the depth camera? I looked at how to do it for the Kinect but I don't think that will work for the Realsense as I just get a black image when I cover the laser projector. If anyone knows how to calibrate the depth camera or get registered depth images out of this camera I could use the help.
Thanks

Originally posted by Icehawk101 on ROS Answers with karma: 955 on 2016-03-30
Post score: 1

A:

Hi All,
So it turns out that the Realsense cameras are factory calibrated with the calibration parameters onboard the camera. The realsense_camera  package I am using doesn't access this data directly. The official Intel realsense package does access this data but does not support the F200. I was able to get the calibration parameters by editing the official package so it would work on the F200. Once I had the calibration parameters I used the realsense_camera package with those, resized the depth image to match the rgb image, then used depth_image_proc to register them. It's not perfect due to the resizing but it works well enough.
[EDIT]
The built in calibration parameters are very close to what I found using camera_calibration and probably don't need changed unless you require very precise results.

Originally posted by Icehawk101 with karma: 955 on 2016-04-11
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 0

Original comments
Comment by Isa on 2017-03-22:
Hi,
Were you able to calibrate the F200? I have been trying to perform a similar calibration as the one done for the kinect (http://wiki.ros.org/openni_launch/Tutorials/IntrinsicCalibration) but I haven't succeded because the F200 doesn't have the service set_camera_info ().
Thanks,
Comment by Icehawk101 on 2017-10-02:
We wound up using a laser scanner instead so I did the bother continuing with this.

