Q:

Creating a fast, uniform, linear actuator

Most of the linear actuators I've seen are nonuniform and/or slow. Those using a cam or crankshaft-like mechanism (and nearly anything hydraulic/pneumatic) cannot be moved at a constant speed without some programming. Those using a screw-like mechanism are uniform, but slow. 
Aside from a rack and pinion/rope wound around a stick, what other fast, uniform linear actuators exist? By uniform, I mean that the speed is uniform (Or the distance moved is linearly dependant on the angle rotated by the motor)

A:

It would be easier to give an answer if we knew what you want to use this for. That would give an idea of your requirements in terms of speed, cost, and space requirements.
As Rocketmagnet has pointed out, you can use a belt drive, or long pitch screw. And you have already mentioned a rack and pinion system. These are all involve a conventional (DC) motor along with a mechanical system to convert angular motion into linear motion:

belt drive
screw
rack & pinion
rigid chain actuator (this is also cool, it can be folded into a small space)

Other methods include:

Linear motor - This is quite cool, it involves a line of magnetic poles, which accelerate the rotor in a linear direction. These can be very fast and precise! This can also be controlled in open-loop (like a stepper motor).

Above is a cross-section of a linear motor
Pneumatic cylinder - the speed can be controlled using a control valve, pneumatic actuators are also quite popular for robotics applications because of its compliance.
Hydraulic cylinder

Wikipedia has an article on linear actuators, and also a comparison table with advantages and disadvantages!

A:

I don't know if this qualifies as a rack & pinion, or rope wound round a stick, but a simple belt drive actuator is very fast and smooth. I'm using one for a SMD pick and place machine where I need very good speed and smoothness of movement.

Linear actuators based on screws don't need to be slow at all, it just depends on the pitch of the screw you use. Use a long pitch screw, and you get a lot more travel per revolution of the motor.

