Q:

Recommended way of using Gazebo with ROS Groovy

Hi Simulators!
I'm trying to get my robot simulation working with Gazebo (currently 1.2.5) in ROS Groovy.
After I checked the ROS wiki, the Gazebosim docs and the Q&A here, I'm still confused what the actual recommended way of using Gazebo with ROS Groovy is.
More precisely:

Which version(s) of Gazebo will be supported in/is recommended for Groovy?
Do I have to start maintaining an extra SDF description of my robot? (If yes, is/will SDF supported in other parts of ROS, e.g. robot state publisher?)
Are there Tutorials available for ROS users to get quickly up to speed?

There is already some related documentation out there, such as installation instructions and tutorials with notes regarding ROS. So, it might be sufficient to put a brief note somewhere to point ROS users like me in the right direction (linking to the recommended installation instructions and tutorials).
Thanks for your help!

Originally posted by bit-pirate on Gazebo Answers with karma: 129 on 2013-01-13
Post score: 5

A:

Here's some insight into our dev process:

We decide on a set of features and functionality for a new release, and internally choose a deadline.

Develop, debug, test, write documentation, etc.

Feature freeze a release branch, which means no new features may be added.

About a week later we code freeze, which means only critical bug fixes may be added.

About a week later we release Gazebo with both source and debian packages.

When the next release of ROS rolls around, a version of Gazebo is selected and included in ROS. This version of Gazebo is not the newest, nor the most heavily tested with ROS. We have likely already moved onto a new version of Gazebo and fixed a slew of bugs.
In the near future ROS will not pull in a version Gazebo. Instead it will use the default system install. Until this happens, the situation is slightly ugly.
Cutting to the chase...I would stick with a version of Gazebo that works for you.

Originally posted by nkoenig with karma: 7676 on 2013-01-14
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 2

Original comments
Comment by bit-pirate on 2013-01-15:
Thanks for the insight! I take from your answer, that the better way (especially regarding the future) would be moving to the standalone installation, which would currently be 1.3. But as long as I don't run into problems, I can also stick with the version distributed with ROS (currently 1.2.5).
Comment by bit-pirate on 2013-01-15:
In case my above comment is correct, what about adding this information somewhere (e.g. ROS wiki, Gazebo wiki)? Furthermore, do you have any suggestions/updates regarding the URDF/SDF issue? PS: Sorry for nagging! :-)
Comment by nkoenig on 2013-01-15:
I've put the development steps here: http://gazebosim.org/wiki/Development_Process. I'm aiming to make a standalone version of SDF in the coming weeks. It'll be up to the ROS community to adopt it, nor not.
Comment by Ben B on 2013-01-15:
This is a scary prospect for me.  Currently, my ROS Gazebo runs fine, but 1.3.1 standalone crashes on startup.

