Q:

how to prevent navigate backwards, and only rotate and move forwards for navigation?

Hi, I'm using navigation stack and using teb_local_planner for path planning. But when I use it, I found there's problem for the robot because it will move backwards while my laser can only detect the forward area. Is there any parameter that I can adjust to make it only rotate and move forward?
I've searched on the website, someone said they change the min_vel to negative, and someone said to change the escape_vel to 0. I have no idea about these, and maybe other parameters I need to know in advance?
Anyone familiar with teb_local_planner? I'm glad to hear your advice. Thanks.

Originally posted by vcdanda on ROS Answers with karma: 38 on 2017-10-06
Post score: 1

A:

I assume you have a differential drive robot.
Unfortunately, we cannot restrict the optimzer's search space to positive velocities only, since our solver does not support hard-constraints. But you can penalize backwards motions by significantly increasing parameter weight_kinematics_forward_drive.
Increase the value by using rqt_reconfigure until you find a satisfactory value (too large values might reduce convergence speed).
Furthermore, you can reduce max_vel_x_backwards to 0 (or it is better to reduce this paramter to at least the value of parameter penalty_epsilon from a numerical point of view; the value is 0.1 by default; I am going to improve this behavior in future versions).

Originally posted by croesmann with karma: 2531 on 2017-10-06
This answer was ACCEPTED on the original site
Post score: 4

Original comments
Comment by vcdanda on 2017-10-07:
Never thought about this solution.
Sounds pretty reasonable, I'll do as what you have said by changing these parameters . Hope I will get a good result.
Comment by aarontan on 2018-06-07:
@vcdanda did you?
Comment by N.N.Huy on 2023-05-29:
@croesmann If Teb doesn't support hard constraint, so how does it treat with kinematics, which must be strictly adhered to ?

